Western economists expressed concern on Thursday that a proposed new excise tax on mazut fuel oil exports being considered by Russia would break an International Monetary Fund agreement. First Deputy Energy Minister Alexander Yevtushenko told a news conference after a cabinet meeting that Russia was discussing an excise tax on exports of mazut, a power plant fuel which some regions have found it hard to stockpile for winter. "We cannot ban exports. We will only establish excises on mazut," he said after the meeting. "We shall establish conditions so that it is profitable to sell mazut domestically and not abroad." But no decision had yet been finalised. An IMF official questioned the proposal. "According to the programme there are supposed to be no export taxes," he said, hearing of the proposed duty. An excise is generally a type of sales tax on both exports and domestic sales, but Yevtushenko was using the term only for exports. Yevtushenko told Reuters that preliminary ministry recommendations were for an export excise of about 14 ecus per tonne of mazut. A Western economist said a tax on exports alone would break the agreement between Russia and the IMF, which is the basis for a $10 billion three-year loan. "If the tax is just on exports, then it is a problem -- it sounds like the old export tax. The IMF does not feel that is the way to solve a non-payment problem," he said. "People should pay for electricity bills and the market for electricity inputs should not be related to a particular problem." A government press release issued before the cabinet meeting said shortages of mazut could cause serious problems. "Mass restrictions may become necessary, including shutting off electricity and heating for consumers," it said. "If the current situation continues, consumers will store 38 percent less mazut for the winter than necessary." The press release said the worst situation was in the Far East, Kamchatka, Sakhalin, Khabarovsk, Altai, Arkhangelsk, Kaliningrad, Murmansk, Novosibirsk region and Karelia. Power cuts in the Far East in mid-July left as many as a million people with electricity for only three hours per day. --Moscow Newsroom, +7095 941 8520