The following are the main stories from Thursday morning's Albanian newspapers. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy. KOHA JONE - The United States considers it indispensable that a new general election should take place in Albania after local polls in October whereas the European Union considers it only to be a possibility. - Lord Finsberg, head of a Council of Europe delegation to discuss Albania's local ballot after a disputed parliamentary poll, says local polls will finally determine the course of the relations between Albania and the European forum. - Lord Finsberg has asked the main opposition Socialist Party to take up its seats in parliament but they say their congress has decided to stick to the boycott. - A court ordered the further detention of three women for prostitution. They were arrested during a raid in a house where sex had been sold for more than 30 years. - Albania's trade deficit for the second quarter of 1996 is higher at 16.6 billion leks although both exports and imports have increased. - The consumer price index for the first half of 1996 is 31.69 percent higher than the 1993. - Albanian agriculture is totally lacking subsidies and credits. - Prime Minister Aleksander Meksi vows the government will adopt most severe measures to punish those who scratched defaced 300-year-old frescoes in an Orthodox church. GAZETA SHQIPTARE - Gumnen, driving by in a motorcycle, riddled with bullets the car of a police chief. He was unharmed as he had left the car just minutes before. - Luigi Vittorio Ferraris, an envoy of Italian Foreign Minister Lamberto Dini, will hear on Thursday the proposals and objections of Albanian parties on the new electoral law. - Greek Foreign Minister Theodoros Pangalos will inaugurate a new Greek consulate in the bordering southermost town of Gjirokaster and meet Albanian leaders over the weekend. GAZETA SHQIPTARE - The paper alleges that only the tip of the iceberg of corruption at Albanian television has been uncovered.