Organisers of voting for Bosnian refugees in Yugoslavia blamed a slow postal delivery of ballot papers for a poor start to Thursday's second day of polling. Several hours after the ballot booths opened across the country at seven a.m. (0500 GMT), not one refugee had cast a vote in the capital Belgrade. The pattern followed the previous day's low turnout in which barely a handful came to nominate their preferred candidates for the first post-war election in Bosnia. "I've got some information from my different teams in the field that some polling stations had two, three, four voters (on Wednesday) -- very few," said Jerome Lyraud of the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE), which is overseeing Bosnia's first post-war election. "It is normal because most did not receive their envelopes and they will receive them today," he told Reuters. Lyraud coordinates a team of 30 monitors supervising the refugee vote at 60 polling stations in the rump Yugoslav republics of Serbia and Montenegro. Throughout Belgrade, OSCE election officials sat alone in empty halls with blank sheets of paper ready to record the names of voters. The OSCE said most refugees were expected to get their ballot papers through the post, and delays in the service meant some were still waiting. "Since the begining we knew that the voting process will take one full week... so it's not at all a problem," Lyraud said, adding that the documents should arrive in Thursday's deliveries. About 640,000 Bosnian refugees are registered to vote in 55 countries around the world from Wednesday, August 28. The in-country election day for Bosnia is September 14. Polling stations have been set up for refugees in Yugoslavia, Croatia, Macedonia, Turkey and Hungary, OSCE officials said. Even before the voting began, reports of widespread manipulation of the voter registration proceess in Yugoslavia and Bosnian Serb territory cast a shadow over the election. The ballot, which the OSCE has described as the most complicated in history, includes six different votes: cantonal assemblies in the Moslem-Croat Federation, separate Moslem-Croat and Serb parliaments, a national House of Representatives, a Serb presidency and a collective Presidency. On Tuesday, the OSCE announced it was cancelling municipal elections because of irregularities in the registrations of Serb refugees. Officials alleged Serb authorities had pushed their refugees to register in strategic towns that had been "cleansed" of their Moslem majorities before the war. The apparent aim of the engineering was to stack the electoral odds in favour of the Serbs who were fighting to seal political control of towns they won in war.