Few in the Kazakh capital Almaty want to believe a plan to move the first city to Akmola, a small, crumbling Soviet town stranded in an ocean of inhospitable steppe. But government officials are determined to go ahead. "Those who don't believe it will believe it," growled Nikolai Makievksy with Bolshevik firmness. "Akmola will be one of the most attractive cities of the 21st century," he said. Makievsky, a tough-talking deputy prime minister, heads a commission charged with moving the capital, to be completed by 2000. Surrounded by charts and architectural plans in a squat administrative building in Akmola, around 1,200 km (745 miles) northwest of Almaty, Makievsky said Kazakh President Nursultan Nazarbayev and several key ministries would move next year. He expected Almaty's population of around 1.5 million to drop to about 800,000. Almaty's budget will fall by 12 billion tenge ($179 million) a year. Building of a new presidential residence in Akmola is well underway. A picture of a gleaming 20-storey hotel, the "Astana" or "Capital", stands near a vacant lot in the centre of the town where Turkish construction company Okan Holding has begun work. But Almaty officials hum and haw evasively about the move. Calls to ministries have yet to yield the response: "Gone to Akmola." Almaty's business sophisticates, clutching mobile phones, laugh off the idea. "Akmola the capital? Never," said 35-year-old Viktor, the busy owner of a building firm who says he has already too much work in Almaty. "Who's ever heard of Akmola?" he said. Diplomats are privately appalled at having to give up the few comforts they have such as trekking and downhill skiing in the breathtaking Tien Shan mountains which tower over Almaty. Clouds of mosquitos invade the sea of steppes around Akmola in the baking summers. Siberian winds lash the town in winter where temperatures drop to -40 degrees centigrade (-40 Fahrenheit). And besides the inevitable statue of Lenin, there is not much to see in Akmola, which means "white tomb". "We'll move when the government moves," said one ambassador unenthusiastically, who had just been hauled in by Makievsky's commission to hear an unwanted progress report. It is not the first time sleepy Akmola has been rudely awakened with a grandiose plan. In 1954, Soviet leader Nikita Khruschev sent hundreds of thousands of largely Russian and Ukrainian volunteers to plough up 250,000 square km (96,530 square miles) of Kazakh steppe in the "Virgin Lands" campaign. Akmola was declared the centre of the campaign and renamed Tselinograd, or "Virgin Lands City". Wind erosion and poor cultivation techniques turned much of the land back into steppe. But faded campaign slogans -- "Praise the hands that smell of bread!" -- still dot the town. Conditions are better than in Khruschev's day, when Virgin Land volunteers and their families slept in tents through the first howling winter. But not much. Many still collect water from standpipes. So why the move? "Moving the capital will decide many questions...It will open the road to full market economic conditions in the republic," Makievsky said. Nazarbayev has cited Akmola's central location as better for transport links with neighbouring Russia and the city is less earthquake-prone than Almaty. There is also the unspoken political aim to tie down the north of this vast Central Asian nation. The north boasts valuable mining deposits, heavy industry and agricultural land. But the area, which has a long border with Russia, is predominantly peopled by ethnic Russians who, having fallen on hard times, have fond memories of their Soviet past when Moscow was the centre. The main effect so far of the planned move has been to send Akmola's property prices soaring. A three-room flat which recently cost $3,000 now sells for $25,000. "Our northern regions will revive," said 26-year-old Azamat, a Kazakh police officer on duty in the centre of Akmola who approves of the move. "Many other states have moved their capitals, for instance Turkey," he said. The comparison with Turkey is apt, for while Nazarbayev may be able to make Akmola the political heart of the country, Almaty is likely to remain its centre of business. But for 70-year-old Paulina Savina, a hunched Russian woman dragging a load of firewood through the centre, the capital appeared a long way off. "What? They say say the capital will move here?" she said on learning of the plan. "When will bread be cheaper?" she barked and stomped off home.