The Mexican government on Thursday condemned leftist guerrilla "terror" attacks which killed at least 12 people and wounded more than 20 in the biggest rebel assaults in Mexico in more than two years. Witnesses and officials said scores of masked, heavily-armed guerrillas from the self-styled Popular Revolutionary Army (EPR) attacked police and military posts in several states. The attacks, which appeared to be closely coordinated, were focused on six towns in Guerrero and Oaxaca states. They marked the most serious fighting since the Zapatista rebellion erupted in the southeastern state of Chiapas in January 1994. Deputy Interior Minister Arturo Nunez said the rebels also attacked an army post in the central state of Mexico near the capital, in which three people were wounded, and carried out propaganda actions in Chiapas and Tabasco states. Radio station Radio Red said the rebels tried to sabotage a hydroelectric power plant in Puebla state. There was no official confirmation of that report. "Even the most sophisticated information and intelligence apparatus cannot always detect the operation of organisations of a clearly terrorist character," Nunez told a news conference, adding that the EPR had used "violent, cruel and cowardly" tactics. Nunez said 10 members of the security forces and two rebels were killed in the attacks while 22 people -- policemen, soldiers and civilians -- were injured. Several rebels were wounded in Oaxaca and were being questioned, he added. Earlier, officials in Guerrero and Oaxaca had given a death toll of 13 with at least 21 wounded. Nunez identified the EPR, which emerged just two months ago in Guerrero, as the armed wing of a clandestine radical leftist group known as PROCUP, which first appeared in the early 1970s. Known members of PROCUP would be taken in for questioning, he said. The Zapatistas, who are in peace talks with the government, have said they have nothing to do with the EPR. Ruling party legislator Pablo Salazar said President Ernesto Zedillo, in a meeting on Thursday with lawmakers and security officials, made a clear distinction between the Zapatistas' willingness to talk to the government and the EPR's "terror" tactics. Mexican financial markets, already hit by a drop in U.S. stock prices, fell after the attacks. The main stock market index closed almost 76 points, or 2.23 percent, lower. The peso ended four centavos weaker at 7.54 against the dollar. The Oaxaca state government said 11 people, including sailors, police, rebels and two civilians, died in two lengthy gunfights, one near the Pacific tourist resort of Huatulco and another in the mountain town of Tlaxiaco. Oaxaca government spokesman Roberto Santiago told Reuters the rebels had also taken hostage a policeman from Tlaxiaco and a sailor from Huatulco's naval base. Gov. Diodoro Carrasco appealed for calm but also urged the population to be on the lookout for "possible new attacks." About 50 rebels took part in the Tlaxiaco attack, killing at least two policemen in the town, a radio control base with a small airport, officials said. In neighbouring Guerrero, officials said two police were gunned down in one attack and five soldiers were wounded in another on an army barracks. Officials said the attacks appeared to be coordinated and the guerrillas numbered at least 130. In Huatulco, around 80 gunmen attacked police posts and a naval base, killing three sailors, two policemen and two civilians, one of whom was hit by machine-gun fire as he drove by, the Oaxaca statement said. Two rebels in olive-green uniforms were killed when police sought to repel the assault. In Tixtla, Guerrero, about 10 miles (16 km) east of the state capital Chilpancingo, policeman Felipe Epitazio, sweeping away blood from the steps of the police station, said the rebel attack by about 30 fighters was very well organised. "I didn't believe in them at all, but seeing them I realised that the guerrillas do exist," he said. "They are fanatical and dedicated, they have killing in their hearts...it was a commando that knew about strategy and all about guerrilla war."