Three major foes of Brazilian President Fernando Henrique Cardoso on Thursday teamed up to hamper any bid he might make to change the constitution and clear the way for his re-election. Senate President Jose Sarney and former president Itamar Franco, both with their eye on the next presidential election in 1998, and Antonio Paes de Andrade, who leads the largest party in the lower house, also criticised some of Cardoso's policies. Their joint statement against re-election came just after an opinion poll showed Brazilians would re-elect the incumbent by a wide margin if elections were held now. Sarney and Paes de Andrade, head of the Brazilian Democratic Movement Party (PMDB), said the issue of re-election should only be raised in 1997 while Franco "made clear and definite his doctrinaire opposition, founded in our Republican tradition." Wary of executive power that might smack of Portuguese colonial emperors, Brazil has not alllowed presidential re-election since the republic was founded in 1889. Speculation that Cardoso might push for a constitutional amendment to allow incumbent presidents to seek another term after October's municipal polls has been heating up, despite official silence from the Presidential Palace. Cardoso's foes also voiced concern, "in view of their duties to the nation, destined, according to the wishes of its founders, to be sovereign," about the opening up of the economy to world trade and the resulting damage to domestic industry. They declared their opposition to the planned privatisation of mining giant Vale do Rio Doce, expected to be Latin America's biggest public sell-off to date. According to the government-backed poll, Cardoso would win 41 percent of the vote. Second was opposition Workers Party candidate Luiz Inacio "Lula" da Silva with 18 percent. Sarney got 11 percent and Franco got 5 percent. Shortly after meeting Cardoso for talks on Thursday, Franco, who was due to take up a post as Brazilian ambassador to the Organisation of American States (OAS), dismissed the survey. "Numbers don't lie. But liars fabricate numbers," he told reporters.