Brazilian exporters have been delaying coffee shipments while a bill removing a 13 percent export tax, the so-called ICMS tax, makes its way through congress. "The ICMS tax will start delaying coffee shipments over the next few days," said Oswaldo Aranha, president of Brazil's Federation of Coffee exporters (FEBEC). The bill, aimed at boosting competitiveness of Brazilian commodities abroad, is slated to go for a Senate vote in the second week of September.   The market expects the bill to be approved by senators because it is a result of an agreement between the federal government and financial secretaries of the country's 27 states. After a Senate approval, the bill must be sanctioned by President Fernando Henrique Cardoso and it will take effect only after being published in the country's Official Gazette. Meanwhile, exporters are delaying coffee shipments because they want to increase profits by not paying any export tax, analysts said.   "I've noticed a slight reduction of sales this week probably because some exporters are watching the progress of the bill," a trader said. Analysts said the removal of the 13 percent export tax would trigger a dispute among producers, consumers and exporters. They said consumers and exporters will back a drop in prices while producers want prices to rise. They said the dispute will only happen by the end of September, when the bill is expected to take effect.   Some traders said the export tax exemption could even affect international coffee prices because Brazilian coffee would be cheaper compared with the coffee from other countries. However, others said it is too early to measure the effect on the international market since market fundamentals are positive for coffee producing countries. They said coffee supply will not be enough to meet international demand adding that coffee stocks are low.   "The bill will be good for the whole sector because it will increase competitiveness of our commodities but it is premature to say it will affect international prices," said Nelson Carvalhaes, trader at Escritorio Carvalhaes. On the export market, prices remained stable with Santos brokers Wolthers & Associates quoting specialty 17/18s at 14 over New York for Sept/Oct shipment, unchanged from last week. Fine 17/18s were also flat at three under and Swedish qualities was quoted at 10 under, also steady. In the domestic market Escritorio Carvalhaes on Aug 29 quoted fine to extrafine Mogiana Minas beans at 123/124 reais per 60 kg. -- Sao Paulo newsroom, 55-11-2324411