Brazil announced on Thursday it will launch "in the next few months" the first prototype of its long-awaited satellite-launching rocket, taking the country a step closer to its dream of a place in space. "I believe that we are now entering cycle favourable to research and construction of technology in the area of space development," President Fernando Henrique Cardoso said at the unveiling of a ten-year Brazilian space programme. The prototype of Brazil's Satellite Launching Vehicle (VLS) will lift off from the country's launching station in Alcantara, in the northeastern state of Maranhao, Cardoso said. The VLS is a 65-foot (20-metre) tall, four-stage rocket which has been stuck at various stages of development for the last 15 years, thwarted by a lack of funds and a former boycott of Brazil by leading technological nations. When ready, the VLS will carry satellites, ranging in weight from 220-770 pounds (100-350 kg), to orbits of 125-625 miles (200-1,000 km), the Brazilian Space Agency said. A total of four prototypes are planned before the first launch of a VLS carrying Brazil's third Data Collection Satellite (SCD). A first SCD was launched outside Brazil in 1993 and, despite its one-year life expectancy, still provides data on river levels and environmental conditions. Brazil last week opened international bidding for the launch of a second SCD. Brazil also hopes that Alcantara's proximity to the equator, which enables rockets to catch a ride on the Earth's centrifugal forces to enter orbit with less fuel, will win it lucrative rocket-launching contracts. "The technological capacity to plan and construct satellites and put them in orbit with our own means is an important step in the definition of Brazil in the next century," said Strategic Affairs Secretary Ronaldo Sardenberg at Thursday's ceremony. Until October last year, Brazil was officially sidelined from the purchase of rocket equipment by the Missile Technology Control Regime, an international group seeking to restrict nuclear weapons proliferation, because of lingering suspicions over the nuclear ambitions the 1964-85 military dictatorship. Now, Brazil is developing and negotiating satellite and other space projects with China, the United States, France, Russia and Argentina.