A United Nations body on Thursday said Brazil faced a "crucial challenge" in dragging a significant portion of its rural population out of extreme poverty. The Food and Agriculture Organisation (FAO) in a report on living conditions in Brazil's vast countryside said that agrarian reform had to aim for sustainable development and not just be a simple redistribution of land. "The reforms ... are a completely economic imperative, as they have been in other countries in Asia, Europe and the Americas," the FAO said. The report coincided with a slamming indictment of the government's land reform policies by seven Christian churches, which on Wednesday called on President Fernando Henrique Cardoso to condemn "day-to-day violence" in the countryside. Thirty-six people have died so far this year in conflicts over land in the Brazilian countryside, including 19 landless peasants massacred by police in April in the northern state of Para. The FAO said: "Rising pressure for agrarian reform and the performance of the government in removing judicial, bureaucratic and political obstacles which impede its acceleration place Brazilian society before a crucial challange." It urged the government to concentrate on encouraging the establishment of family-run smallholdings which it said were actually more productive than the vast spreads owned by the elite. Furthermore, it said that small farms, accounting for some 75 percent of all agricultural enterprises, employed 59 percent of rural workers. Cardoso has vowed to settle 280,000 landless families by the end of his term in 1998. But the militant Landless Movement, which claims to represent 4.8 million families, has said the government was not doing enough. In their letter on Wednesday to Cardoso and the Brazilian people, the churches warned that the problem of land distribution was one of the most serious facing Brazil. They also demanded an end to the traditional impunity enjoyed by gunmen and police who routinely resort to violence to help local landowners kick squatters off their property.