Co-ordinated guerrilla attacks in two southern states caused Mexican stocks to tumble and the peso to lose ground on Thursday, showing how fragile Mexico's financial markets still are. Business leaders called for quick action, and Mexican Finance Minister Guillermo Ortiz said he hoped the attacks would be seen in their "real context." The attacks, which left 13 dead, drove down the bolsa by more than 2.0 percent in late trade, and helped the spot peso to weaken by 4.0 centavos to 7.535/7.54 per dollar at its close. Ortiz told reporters that the country's financial markets had been performing "reasonably" and that he hoped leftist rebel attacks that killed 13 people overnight would be seen in their "real context." "I hope that these actions will be taken in the real context in which they are occurring," he said. Many analysts say they believe the attacks were timed to embarrass President Ernesto Zedillo before he gives his second State of the Nation address on Sunday. At least 13 people were killed and 21 injured when scores of masked rebels struck at police and military posts in Oaxaca and Guerrero states late Wednesday in the biggest assaults in more than two years. A soldier and a sailor were also taken hostage, one governent official said. Mexican business leaders said the surprise guerrilla violence could scare off foreign investment and called for a stern response from the government. "With a belligerent group like this that uses high-powered weapons, you can't fight them with holy water," Carlos Abascal, president of the employers association, told radio station Radio Red. The attacks were in six towns in the two southern states, and appeared to be the work of a well-armed new rebel force calling itself the Popular Revolutionary Army, which emerged two months ago. Part of the volatilty in Mexican markets was also due to the rise in the yield on the 30-year U.S. Treasury bond. After hitting record highs this week, profit-taking on the Mexican stock market has also been widespread. Analysts added that the impact of the guerrilla attacks has been cushioned by improving economic conditions. "The fragility will continue for some time. There are still worries and volatility, but with consistent economic improvement each time the volatility will be less," said Bancomer economist Javier Maldonado. Economists say Mexico's economy is much stronger than it was a few months ago. Second-quarter gross domestic product came in at 7.2 percent, marking an end to the recession. On Wednesday Banco de Mexico said the nation had a current account surplus of $641 million in the second quarter, compared with a surplus of $441 million a year before. Earlier guerrilla attacks in Mexico have combined with economic imbalances to devastating effect. On Jan. 1 1994 rebels in Chiapas seized six towns, starting a period of prolonged political uncertainty in Mexico. On Dec. 19 the same year movements by Zapatista rebels and army troops in Chiapas, combined with mounting concerns about the government's ability to pay its debts and a sudden drop in investor confidence, kicked off an exodus of dollars that sparked the Mexican peso crisis and tipped the country into its deepest recession in half a century.