Attacks by leftist guerrillas in two southern states of Mexico unsettled the country's financial markets Thursday, but analysts said their impact has been cushioned by improving economic conditions. "As dramatic as they are, at least for the moment they appear to be more of a nuisance and an embarrassment," said Felix Boni, chief economist with HSBC James Capel.   "The unsettling thing is that it appears to be coordinated. But it may be more of an attempt to embarrass (Mexican President Ernesto) Zedillo on the eve of his state-of-the union address," he said. At least 13 people were killed when scores of masked rebels struck police and military posts in Oaxaca and Guerrero states in the largest assaults in Mexico in more than two years. The attacks, which appeared to be closely coordinated, were in six towns in the two southern states, and appeared to be the work of a well-armed new rebel force calling itself the Popular Revolutionary Army (EPR), which emerged two months ago.   Zedillo is scheduled to give his second annual state-of-the-union address on Sunday. Mexico's stock market had hit new record highs recently amid speculation he would announce measures to spur growth. "It (the outbreak of violence) is not all that worrisome yet. It may have been planned to create noise before Zedillo's state-of-the-union address," said Bancomer economist Javier Maldonado. Mexico's stock market dropped Thursday after news of the attacks, shedding more than 1.5 percent.   Rates on short-term government money market paper also rose in nervous trading, dealers said. Economists say that Mexico's markets are better placed than they were several months ago, and the economy much stronger. Second-quarter gross domestic product came in at 7.2 percent, marking an end to the recession. On Wednesday Banco de Mexico said the nation had a current account surplus of $641 million in the second quarter compared with a surplus of $441 million in the same period a year earlier.   "There has been a pretty robust recovery, although people may be a little over-optimistic," said Lehman Brothers economist John Welsh. He discounted the effect of the fresh guerrilla attacks on the markets. The improving economy will help ease volatilty, eocnomists said. "The fragility will continue for some time. There are still worries and volatility, but with consistent economic improvement each time, the volatility will be less," he said. Earlier guerrilla attacks in Mexico have combined with economic imbalances to devastating effect.