Despite little movement so far in the gold price, some analysts are suggesting investors beef up their portfolio of gold shares. Physical demand for gold is again poised to outpace supply in 1996 as it did last year, suggesting the shortfall will have to be met either from official or private sales or new forward hedge positions, they said. In such a scenario, gold should fall under the influence of supply and demand like any other commodity, the analysts said.   The shortage of physical gold, brought on by robust demand from the jewellery sector is being compounded by declining South African output, offset only partly by higher production from countries such as Australia. The current volatility in gold shares compared with the gold price has suggested to some that while gold may go up, shares may not necessarily follow. However, the emerging fundamental outlook for gold supplies is outweighing these concerns, at least for now, in the Australian market, where the local gold index has been relatively steady at just below 2000.   Bell Securities Ltd estimates South Africa's June quarter output slipped some four tonnes and is likely to fall further. South African output is in decline, despite new mines coming on stream, as mine fires and labor unrest take a toll. At least 24 miners have been killed and scores more injured in recent weeks in fights at four mines run by Gold Fields of South Africa Ltd. The violence has been blamed on differences between ethnic groups and rival unions.   Against this backdrop, brokerage Hartley Poynton Ltd believes physical demand is strong enough to place a rising floor under the gold price, which will set the scene for improvements. Producer hedging this year is unlikely to fill the gap between supply and physical demand, it said in a report. Money market managers and speculators are viewed as being the catalyst for such a move. Taking into account hedge positions, Hartley Poynton sees the potential for a shortfall of between 200 and 250 tonnes this year, equivalent to about one month's demand.   This, it said, implies higher gold prices. "It is only a matter of time before the gold price moves upwards into the next trading range," it said. "The bulk of evidence suggests investors should be overweight gold." -- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 973-1800