Australia's current account deficit might have stabilised over the past few months, easing market fears of a return to spiralling debt, but problems still remain, economists said on Thursday. The current account deficit for July was A$1.28 billion, (US$1.02 billion), slightly up on June's A$1.22 billion, but well below the 1996 high of A$2.12 billion in May, the Australian Bureau of Statistics said on Thursday. The deficit came in right at market expectations and had little impact. Analysts said that after moderating from record highs in mid-1995, the deficit has receded as a market concern, except when it appears to be rising, for example in April and May. "This is another good monthly number," Bankers Trust Australia chief economist Chris Caton said. "We've had two good numbers in a row ... this is now a neutral number for markets." Adding to the favourable atmosphere was news that the trade balance was in surplus for the second month in a row, the first time this has happened since early 1994, despite a 3.8 percent fall in exports. Treasurer Peter Costello welcomed the July result, saying the deficit was heading in the right direction, and using it to support the cuts he announced in last week's budget. "It's heading in the right direction and we think it's important that we lock in a lower current account deficit by boosting domestic savings, and that's what our budget strategy's all about," Costello told reporters. Economists backed Costello, but were more cautious as to whether further improvement would be seen, saying cyclical gains in areas such as trade were smoothing over continuing long-term structural problems, especially in the net income deficit. "While it (the July deficit) is a pretty reasonable sort of number, the structure of it is still not looking all that pretty with the net income deficit just being so big," Citibank Australia senior economist Stephen Koukoulas said. "And that's probably going to take three to five years to really correct even if you have all the right policy settings in place," Koukoulas said. The net income deficit is the main component of the current account account deficit and it has been larger than the total deficit for four of the first seven months of 1996. In July, the net income deficit was A$1.74 billion. The net income deficit represents the difference between income earned offshore and income paid offshore -- essentially it is the cost of funding Australia's external liabilities. Improving the net income deficit is not a short-term task, and economists said the measures announced by Costello in last week's budget would not produce results for a number of years -- and in the meantime the net income deficit would prevent further substantial improvement in the current account deficit. Commonwealth Bank chief economist Bruce Freeland described the July current account figure as "pretty good news and basically I think about as good as Australia's current account can be expected to be at the moment". "The big constraint remains the A$1.7 billion per month on our net income deficit. That's not going to change in a hurry, that really does put a floor under the current account," he said. (A$1 = US$0.79)