Russia intends to tighten controls on imported food, but top sanitary officials said on Thursday they were aiming to improve health, not protect Russia's inefficient farms and food industry. "We are in no way linked to Russia's agricultural sector, and our main concern is to protect the health of Russians," Gennady Onishchenko, acting head of Russia's State Sanitary and Epidemiological Controls Committee, told a news conference. "Food influences everything, even the genetic potential of the country," he said. The share of imported food in Russians' diet varies from around 50 percent in Moscow to over 80 percent in the remote northern and eastern regions, officials said. Onishenko said the goverment was backing a bill on foodstuffs and safety which, after adoption by parliament, "will put obstacles in the way of low-quality food to Russia". Food imported from China will be given the most thorough checks, a committee press release said. Russia has already suspended some food imports because of health concerns. Earlier this year top officials from Russia and the United States were involved in a tug-of-war over an import ban on cheap chicken legs from the U.S. Russian officials said then the legs -- dubbed "Bush legs" after George Bush, under whose presidency Russia started massive imports of the product -- contained salmonella bacteria and had little nutritional value. The conflict was resolved after U.S. poultry producers agreed to introduce routine checks at their factories. Salmonella has so far not been found in "Bush legs", said Vladimir Chiburayev, a department chief at the committee. "There could have been an element of lobbying in this to back domestic poultry producers," he told Reuters. The committee said its monitoring showed a high level of contamination of imported food with foreign elements. But official figures released at the news conference showed a different picture. In the first quarter of the year sanitary officials confiscated 5,241 tonnes of low-quality foodstuffs, including only 139 tonnes of imports. "The percentage of rejected products among the imported ones is much lower than among those produced in Russia, but we insist it must be even less," said Onishchenko. "This can't be called lobbying. We clearly understand that our inefficient agriculture would have provided the Russians only with enough bread, potatoes and water, if it had not been for imports. But if another country has a food surplus, it must sell Russia only premium quality," Chiburayev added.