Poland's left-dominated parliament drew closer on Thursday to liberalising a restrictive abortion law, despite opposition from the Roman Catholic Church and its political allies. A bill, backed by the dominant ex-communists in the ruling coalition and a leftist opposition party, would allow women to end pregnancies before the 12th week if they could not afford to raise a child or had other personal problems. The present law, passed in 1993 under a centre-right government, allows abortions only if the pregnancy threatens the woman's life or health or results from rape or incest or when the foetus is irreparably damaged. After an emotional debate late into the night, the lower house voted to send its proposed amendments to the current tough anti-abortion law back to a parliamentary committee for final scrutiny of details. Its final vote is likely either on Friday or in two weeks. Supporters of the change say the existing law causes repeated personal tragedies, such as bungled back-street abortions or babies abandoned by unwilling mothers, and that those women with money now simply go abroad for abortions. "Enough hypocrisy, enough of this most restrictive law in Europe," deputy Izabella Sierakowska of the ruling Democratic Left Alliance (SLD) declared in the debate. PAP news agency said she branded current rules as "unfair, crime-inducing, hypocritical, ineffective." Opponents of the change, including members of the SLD's smaller Peasant party partner in the ruling leftist coalition, put forward Catholic arguments that abortion is murder. Although about 90 percent of Poles are formally Catholics, opinion surveys suggest most favour liberalisation of the law. Parliament passed similar amendments last year, but they were vetoed by then-president Lech Walesa, a devout Catholic. Walesa's close defeat in November elections by ex-communist Aleksander Kwasniewski cleared the way for reform, as the secular-minded new president supports the initiative. During a mass pilgrimage to Poland's holiest shrine at Czestochowa this week, the country's Primate, Cardinal Jozef Glemp said that there was no place at Catholic altars for those who supported the alterations to the law. "Those who support legal acts propagating murder exclude themselves from the community of the faithful," he said. The amended law contains safeguards to prevent a return to the situation before the 1989 fall of communism, when abortion was easily available and often treated as an alternative to contraception. Women must first undergo counselling and a three-day period for reflection. It provides for penalties of up to 10 years in jail for carrying out abortions against a woman's will or after the foetus has become viable outside her body. The measure also calls for enforcing of sex education in secondary schools -- a measure condemned by some Catholic legislators who say the lessons will be devoid of moral instruction.