Here are highlights of stories in Romania's press on Thursday. Reuters has not verified these stories and does not vouch for their accuracy: Business: CAPITAL - Private companies in oil sector plan creation of national oil and gas company. - Defence Ministry plans creation of bank to give credits to army personnel. ROMANIA LIBERA -  Banca Agricola SA plans to launch hard-currency credit cards to be used by corporates. ADEVARUL - Amount of 10.1 billion lei was included in this year's state budget which is intended to subsidise interest on CEC savings bank credits for housing construction. - Total foreign investment in Romania was $1.945 billion on August 15. TINERETUL LIBER -  ARO SA car maker plans to build pick-up trucks in cooperation with South Korean Daewoo. ZIUA - Romania's inflation rate this year will be 30 percent from initially forecast 20 percent and GDP growth will be 4.8 percent instead of 4.5 percent, according to rectified 1996 state budget. LIBERTATEA - Communications Ministry set procedures to award GSM licence to winner of tender planned later this year. CURIERUL NATIONAL - Sharp rise in prices is expected for October and December after energy and fuel price hikes in July. - Representatives of U.S. plane maker McDonnell Douglas are visiting Romanian aircraft maker  Avioane SA discussing cooperation prospects. General: ROMANIA LIBERA - Newspaper publishes draft Romanian-Hungarian treaty as agreed after the last round of negotiations on August 21-22. - One page report on child sex abuse, paedophilia and prostitiution in Romania. ADEVARUL - President Ion Iliescu must clearly explain to the people why he considers he deserves a new presidential mandate, says Adrian Uncu in an editorial wondering what Iliescu will accomplish in four years that he has not done in the previous six. - Newspaper publishes excerpts from President Iliescu's speech at his official launch ceremnoy for a new mandate in the November 3 polls. EVENIMENTUL ZILEI Transmission was aborted Transmission was aborted