At least 13 people were killed when scores of masked rebels struck at police and military posts in Oaxaca and Guerrero states in the biggest assaults in more than two years, officials said on Thursday. The attacks, which appeared to be closely coordinated, were in six towns in the two southern states. They marked the most serious fighting since the Zapatista rebellion erupted in the southeastern state of Chiapas in January 1994. This time, witnesses said, the attacks were launched by a well-armed new rebel force calling itself the Popular Revolutionary Army (EPR) that emerged two months ago. The Oaxaca state government said 11 people including sailors, police, rebels and two civilians died in two lengthy gunfights, one near the Pacific tourist resort of Huatulco and another in the mountain town of Tlaxiaco. In neighbouring Guerrero, officials said, two policeman were gunned down in one attack and five soldiers were wounded when gunman opened fire on an army barracks. Officials said the attacks appeared to be coordinated and the guerrillas numbered at least 130. "At around 10 p.m., in the town of Tlaxiaco ... a group of approximately 50 heavily armed people, dressed as civilians but wearing dark clothing, their faces covered with handkerchiefs, suddenly burst into the centre of town and began an attack against the police," Oaxaca's government said. At least two policemen died in the town, a radio control base with a small airport. It lies in barren mountainous land 60 miles (100 km) west of Oaxaca City, the state capital. In Huatulco, around 80 gunmen attacked police posts and a naval base, killing three sailors, two policemen and two civilians, one of whom was hit by machine-gun fire as he drove by, the statement said. Two rebels dressed in olive-green uniforms were killed when police sought to repel the assault. The two state governments said there were a total of 21 wounded. None appeared to be rebels. An unidentified witness from Tlaxiaco, speaking live on Radio Red, said the rebels arrived in trucks and painted pro-EPR slogans on roads and buildings. Then the shooting started in the main square, sending locals fleeing for cover. "There was a massive gun battle," she said, adding that the fighting lasted at least an hour. "Everyone ran, everything turned into panic. We hid in the safest part of the house. The town lived through an hour of sheer terror." National TV network Televisa showed municipal buildings riddled with bullet holes in the town of Tixtla, Guerrero, where the police station was shot up. Tixtla is about 10 miles (16 km) east of the state capital, Chilpancingo. Radio reports said police and army units rushed to the parts of Oaxaca where the fighting occurred but the rebels appeared to have vanished.