Argentine stocks closed moderately lower in dismal volume Thursday, mirroring the previous day's action, and prices were seen steady at these levels. "The market is still pressured by the local political scenario. But it held up pretty well today considering the shakeouts on Wall Street and Mexico," said Humberto Lopez of Wainbuch traders. "Now I think we'll move more or less sideways, with some brief swings in both directions." The blue-chip MerVal index slid 1.1 percent to end at 504.34, paring gains so far in the week to 0.8 percent.   The MerVal stands 4.6 percent lower since August 1. "The markets are in a pretty bad mood and they're starting to become immune to news from Congress (on fiscal reforms)," said Lopez. "However, most players expect an improving scenario in the second half of September, when the IMF should approve new fiscal targets -- that's when I see (Economy Minister Roque) Fernandez getting a boost." Fernandez was named to replace Domingo Cavallo nearly five weeks ago and, while he received a warm initial welcome from the markets, his first set of measures has caused controversy and is not expected to pass Congress for another two weeks.   One of the measures under study has especially irked market players: a proposed hike in wealth tax to 1.0 percent from 0.5 percent. Wealth tax was extended to include stock and bond holdings during last year's Tequila crisis. "This is very bad news for the bolsa. The rules of the game are constantly changing and that's the worst possible thing for the capital markets," stock exchange president Julio Macchi said earlier Thursday. The markets were also unsettled by a preliminary decision by the lower house of Congress Wednesday to share revenue from planned hikes in fuel taxes with the provinces.   In the session the broad market fell 1.2 percent, with losers whipping risers 37 to five and 14 issues closing flat. Floor volume shrank to 11.8 million pesos from 13.9 million Wednesday, while over-the-counter turnover plummeted to 52.5 million pesos against 116.6 million Wednesday. Heaviest main-tier losers were in textile firm Alpargatas and Bansud, both off 2.8 percent. Banco Frances and Banco de Galicia both shed 2.3 percent while utility Central Costanera and construction stock Polledo both shed 2.2 percent. The only gainer was petrochemical firm Indupa, up 3.2 percent. -- Carmen Pignotti, Buenos Aires Newsroom 541 318-0657