In spite of recent setbacks the Venezuelan government remains committed to carrying out its ambitious privatization program, Finance Minister Luis Raul Matos Azocar said Thursday. "We have been presented with some setbacks but we maintain our will to privatize," Matos told a news conference. The Venezuelan government called off the planned privatization of state bank Banco de Venezuela Thursday after accusations of irregularities in the auction process put off potential bidders.   Matos said the Banco de Venezuela privatization had been carried forward as transparently as possible but that the uncertainties surrounding the auction had made it impossible to go ahead as planned. Nevertheless, "the Venezuelan government considers it indispensable as part of the success of the Venezuelan Agenda and to make a structural change in the future of the country that that privatization timetable is carried out," he said. The Venezuelan Agenda is the name given to the economic reform program launched in April with backing from the International Monetary Fund.   Many analysts and market watchers saw the cancellation of the Banco de Venezuela sale as a nail in the coffin for Venezuela's shaky privatization drive. But Matos stressed that plans to privatize state bank Banco Consolidado in October, the government's 49 percent stake in telephone company  CANTV in November and four aluminum companies in December, were on track. "We are not in a hurry to privatize for fiscal reasons, but we do want to do it at an accelerated pace," he said. Matos appealed to political parties not to turn the privatization program into a polemical debate.   The leading opposition party, Democratic Action (AD), had complained that the price set for Banco de Venezuela was too low and that certain bidders had received privileged access to information. Government officials firmly denied the accusations but acknowledged that they had affected the confidence of potential bidders in the auction process. -- Caracas newsroom, 582 834405