Potential bidders for Venezuelan bank Banco de Venezuela, the auction of which was called off on Wednesday, raised doubts on Thursday about the way in which the auction process was being handled. "Banco Santander was not ready to place a bid since there were still a number of outstanding issues concerning the process which had not been resolved," Jaime de Pinies, managing director of Santander Investment, told Reuters in a telephone interview.   Spanish bank Banco Santander and leading Peruvian bank Banco de Credito were the only banks to make a deposit to enter the auction that had been scheduled for Friday. But a top Banco de Credito executive told Reuters the bank subsequently made a decision not to bid because the minimum price of $275 million was too high. Esther de Margulis, president of the state Deposits Guarantee Fund, known as FOGADE, announced on Wednesday that the Banco de Venezuela auction had been called off indefinitely because of confusions about the auction process.   "Due to these conditions FOGADE thinks it will be impossible to carry out a successful auction and has decided to suspend the auction process," she told a news conference. The sale of the bank was thrown off course late last week when a local judge ordered the auction suspended while alleged irregularities were investigated. The same judge reversed her herself on Monday after receiving additional information from FOGADE, but the confusion shook the confidence of potential bidders.   Colombia's Banco Bogota and Germany's Dresdner Bank AG, which had expressed interest in Venezuela's third largest commercial bank, did not even place a deposit to take part in the auction. For Pinies, the successful privatization of Banco de Venezuela, which was taken over by FOGADE in August 1994, "will depend upon the satisfactory resolution of several issues." He did not elaborate. Another Banco de Credito official said the bank had heard the government may now change the terms of the sale, reserving a part of the bank for local investors.   While many in Venezuela complained the $275 million base price set for the bank as too low, the Banco de Credito official said the bank was probably overpriced given the state of Venezuela's economy and its banking sector in particular. The Venezuelan economy is due to record its third year of recession and is the country is grappling with an annual inflation rate of over 112 percent. A banking sector crisis in 1994 and 1995 wiped out over half of the commercial banking sector and cost the state over $10 billion. "To win the bank you're going to have to go into pricey territory. People aren't going to break their backs to get into Venezuela," the Banco de Credito official said. But the perceived risk surrounding investment in Venezuela also makes it an attractive time to enter the country, the official added. "It is a risk, but this is the time to buy into Venezuela because the imperfect scenario actually means you could get assets cheaply," he said. -- Paul Hughes, Caracas newsroom, 582 834405