(Compiled for Reuters by Media Monitors) THE AUSTRALIAN FINANCIAL REVIEW Two of Australia's largest finance groups, National Mutual and National Australia Bank, support the formation of a mega-regulator by the Wallis financial inquiry, however, Westpac, ANZ and the Commonwealth Bank claim a merger of financial regulators would cause upheaval and concentrate power. Page 1. -- Falling exports and a deterioration in the net income deficit prompted a seasonally adjusted A$59 million rise in Australia's July current account deficit to A$1.28 billion from A$1.23 billion in June, according to Australian Bureau of Statistics balance of payments figures released yesterday.  Page 2. -- AGL is armed with A$2 billion to advance the company's interstate expansion strategy to move into Victoria through the purchase of the Government-owned gas pipeline network, Gas Transmission Corporation, or the gas utility GasCor.  Page 27. -- Concern over Coles' operating performance and an expected slump in earnings has prompted  several  institutions to sell-off stock, with some removing investment in the retailing giant completely. The biggest buyer in the past several weeks has been Brierley Investments Ltd, which has acquired another two per cent to reach around seven per cent.  Page 27. -- An agreement has been made between BHP and the banks to defer the option to purchase the A and B redeemable preference shares in Beswick (ARPS and BRPS), until the year 2000. Beswick Pty Ltd, the holding vehicle for 17.1 per cent of BHP, announced the five-year extension of its A$1.5 billion quasi-debt facility by Westpac and the Commonwealth Bank yesterday.  Page 28. -- John B. Fairfax's regional media group Rural Press Ltd recorded a 6.1 per cent increase in net profit to A$31.5 million and has flagged an expansion into print and radio assets in Asia. Managing director Brian McCarthy said the company was always looking for acquisitions and had recently held talks for media joint ventures in Asia. Page 28. -- THE AUSTRALIAN Announcing a 32 per cent rise in annual profit to A$124.3 million, The Australian Gas Light Co  AGL.AX managing director Len Bleasel said yesterday the company could spend up to A$1 billion on acquisitions and would bid for the former Gas & Fuel Corp when it was privatised by the Victorian Government. Page 23. -- Although Auspine Ltd shareholders have requisitioned an extraordinary meeting to remove the forestry and wood products company's chairman, Rod Hartley said yesterday he would fight for his position.  The move follows a collapse in Auspine earnings and inquiries from the Australian Securities Commission into complaints about share trading by managing director Adrian de Bruin and fellow director Keith Veall. Page 23. -- Former Equiticorp head Allan Hawkins has told a New Zealand newspaper that the mysterious H fee at the heart of the National Crimes Authority case against him represented an underwriting agreement with a 20 per cent profit margin paid by Elders to ensure Equiticorp retained its 4.4 per cent stake in BHP until November 1986. Page 23. -- In a submission to the Wallis financial inquiry, Australia's second biggest life office, National Mutual Holdings, has called for the removal of restrictions that prevent the four big banks and the two leading life offices from merging and urged the removal of foreign investment limits. Page 23. -- Westfield Holdings Ltd shopping centre group yesterday reported a 22 per cent increase in annual profit to A$74.9 million. Westfield managing director David Lowy said signs of a pick-up in the US economy should guarantee the group another increase in proit next year. Page 25. -- Despite spending A$1.39 million on an unsuccessful takeover defence, Sunbeam Victa Holdings Ltd yesterday reported a net profit, before abnormals of A$6.47 million. Manufacturer GUD Holdings Ltd did not release its costs for the takeover of Sunbeam, but it also met 1995-96 profit forecasts with a net result of A$10.6 million. Page 25. -- THE SYDNEY MORNING HERALD Shares in The Australian Gas Light Co jumped by 42 cents to A$6 yesterday, following the announcement of a better-than-expected net profit of A$124.3 million for the June 30 year, up from A$94 million. AGL managing director Len Bleasel said the resut showed the New South Wales-based energy group is well on track to face a deregulated market. Page 21. -- Although Reef Casino Trust shares hit an all time low of 55 cents yesterday, the Australian Olympic Committee will retain its A$7.3 million investment in Reef, claiming it is still a good long-term hold even though, at yesterday's price, the AOC faced a paper loss of A$2.78 million. Page 21. -- CSL chief executive Brian McNamee yesterday attacked the Federal Government's move to reduce tax breaks on research and development, claiming the Government could have better reduced the deficit by tightening the criteria for the R&D tax concession or lifing corporate tax. Page 21. -- The Colonial Group is expected to announce in late September a new name for the State Bank of New South Wales. After buying the State Bank in December 1994 for A$568 million, the name change is intended to give the bank a national focus and clearly identify it as part of the Colonial Group.  Page 21. -- Australia's largest shopping centre group Westfield Holdings has vowed to continue with a demanding construction program having weathered a difficult retail market to record a 22 per cent rise in net profits to A$74.9 million to June. Managing director David Lowy attributed a recent 11 per cent fall in sales to A$438 million to the timing of construction payments, although he acknowledged tough retailing conditions. Page 23. -- BHP signed agreements in Canberra yesterday with Commonwealth Bank and Westpac, extending its quasi-financing arrangements for another five years. BHP said the rights of the banks to redeem A$990 million preference A shares had been deferred until the yer 2001 and Westpac's right to put the A$500 million preference B shares to BHP until September 2000. Page 23. -- THE AGE The rural sector is set to end a five year slump with one of the best seasons on record. The July balance of payments figures released yesterday, showed solid export gains were continuing into 1996-97 and total agricultural commodities produced last finacial year were up from A$23.8 billion to A$27.6 billion. The boom means an extra A$1 billion for farmers in Victoria as the value of production increased to A$6.3 billion.  Page C1. -- The head of Australia's foremost drug groups, chief executive of CSL Brian McNamee, blasted the Federal Government yesterday for reducing tax breaks on research and development, claiming it is a direct hit to the development of knowledge-based industries. McNamee claimed the Budget was a blow to the innovative sector of the economy and that instead the Government should have tightened the criteria for the R&D tax concession or simply lifted corporate tax.  Page C1. -- A bid to generate sales in a bleak retail environment has seen supermarket operators and traditional packaged good manufacturers turning to lotteries, competitions and cash prizes. The promotions have been initiated by manufacturers who are less inclined to sacrifice brand integrity and customer loyalty through price cutting - a move they perceive to devalue their products.  Page C1. -- Discount giant Target announced yesterday it would cease the sale of cigarettes in its US stores by the end of this month. The decision is the first to be made by a large retail chain and reflects the deepening stigma attached to smoking and mounting presure to comply with laws barring the sale of tobacco to minors.  As cigarettes account for only 1 per cent of Target's sales the move is expected to bring only favourable publicity. Page C1. -- Speaking to a group of businessmen in Shanghai on the first leg of his five-city tour of China, Deputy Prime Minister Tim Fischer labelled Sydney's main Botany container terminal as "disgraceful" and said, although there had been improvement over the pastdecade, the performance of Australia's waterfront industry had slipped back in the past few years. Page C3. -- After releasing improved earnings and an increased dividend for the 1995-96 financial year, GUD Holdings managing director Ian Beynon said dividends from Sunbeam Victa are likely to be cut this financial year as GUD tries to finance reinvestment from Sunbeam's cashflows. Page C3. -- Reuters Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800