This is a compilation of the latest notable comments from Australian policymakers -- Prime Minister John Howard, Treasurer Peter Costello, the Reserve Bank of Australia, its outgoing governor, Bernie Fraser, and new governor designate, Ian Macfarlane. A decisive quote on the budget from opposition treasury spokesman Gareth Evans is also included. MONETARY POLICY Costello: "If we can get our budget, intact, through the Senate, if we can get that low inflation locked in, then I think we can set up the chances for an easing in monetary policy." (Before the end of the year?) "I'd like to get that outcome and I am going to do the best to make sure we are going to get it." (Aug 20) "If the budget doesn't go through, you won't get another interest rate cut. In fact, the interest rate cut of 0.5 percent of a couple of weeks ago could well be under threat." (Aug 11) Costello and Macfarlane, jointly: "The governor designate takes this opportunity to express his commitment to the Reserve Bank's inflation objective, consistent with his duties under the (RBA) Act. For its part the government indicates again that it endorses the bank's objective and emphasises the role that disciplined fiscal policy must play in achieving such an outcome." (Aug 14) ECONOMIC GROWTH "3.5 percent is not high enough." (Aug 21) Reserve Bank: "Some pick-up in the pace of economic activity from current levels is expected over the year ahead but, in the board's view, there is scope to grow a little faster without rekindling inflationary pressures." (July 31) Costello: "We think that it's growing at around, a bit above three percent." (Aug 11) INFLATION Reserve Bank: "Over the first half of 1996, inflation was running at an annual rate of around 2.5 percent. Most other price indicators are showing lower rates. ... The bank's forecasts suggest that both underlying and headline inflation will be in (the) two to three percent range for some time. ... Costello: "I don't see any great risk in inflation other than in relation to wages." (Aug 21) BUDGET Costello: "But if we cannot get our A$8 billion deficit-reduction programme through the Senate we won't be able to afford the superannuation co-payment." (Aug 11) (Asked whether the co-payment was conditional,) "Of course ... there are going to be consequences if the Senate mucks around with this (the budget)." (Aug 21) (On the remainder of the A$8 billion cuts,) "We will assess over the year before our next budget whether we need fine-tuning and the direction in which that should go ..." (Aug 26) Fahey: "If we do lose some in the Senate then I guess we are going to have to go back to the drawing beoard because we are very, very determined to ensure that again in this period of economic growth that we get back into balance." Evans: "The financial markets and the national (international?) community can rest reasonably comfortably assured that our oppostion to the budget will take a largely political form rather than being reflected in the actual budget outcomes." ... "(The budget won't survive intact but) ... it's nonetheless a reasonable anticipation that the overall shape of the budget and its general flavour will remain intact and there won't be any dramatic or significant change in that. But certainly a few hundred million (A$) at the margin is absolutely within the realm of contemplation and we make no apology for that." -- Bradley Perrett, Canberra Bureau 61-6 273-2730