Mayne Nickless Ltd is expected to unveil a weaker pre-abnormal net profit for year to June 30 when it reports on Monday. Analysts contacted by Reuters forecast Mayne Nickless would report a pre-abnormal net profit of A$84 million to A$88.7 million for the year, a fall of between 30 and 34 percent on the A$126.8 million the company reported in the 1994/95 year. "The lower forecast is mainly due to interest costs from the cessation of the capitalisation of interest associated with the company's investment in Optus," said Paul Xavier, transport analyst at BNP Securities.   Xavier forecast Mayne Nickless to report a pre-abnormal net profit of A$87.9 million for the 1996/97 year. In May, Mayne Nickless said it expected its full year net profit to be lower than the previous year and lower than market expectations. "Net profit before abnormal items would be lower than the previous year, due to an increase in the interest expense resulting from the cessation of interest capitalisation on its investment in Optus Communications, increased investment in Optus Communications, and the acquisition of Australian Medical Enterprises," Mayne Nickless then said.   Analysts said since this announcement they had revised down their pre-abnormal net profit forecasts about 15 percent. Despite this downgrade, analysts said Mayne Nickless' final results had been made largely irrelevant by the company's announcement earlier this year that it would sell its 25 percent stake in Optus Communications. "What the market is really interested in is what it gets for Optus," one Sydney-based analyst said. Mayne has said it will sell its stake as a part of a float of Optus later this year.   Analysts have estimated Mayne's stake could be worth up to a A$1 billion compared to its investment of A$630 million in Optus since its formation in late 1991. Mayne Nickless shares closed 20 cents higher at A$8.40 on Thursday. Its shares have risen about 45 percent since June 30, 1995. -- Michael Stapleton Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800