New Zealand business confidence moved back into the positive reinforcing the July turnaround in optimism, according to a National Bank of New Zealand survey published on Friday. A net six percent of respondents to the bank's Business Outlook Survey now expect general business conditions to improve over the next 12 months, compared to a net 16 percent of respondents anticipating a deterioration last month. The July rebound was the first since December 1995.   Chief economist Adrian Orr saw this rise as a consolidation in business confidence. "The economy has been slowing this year, buffeted by weak world demand and tight monetary conditions. It now appears the end is in sight." "In sum, the August survey results are very positive. If sustained, they indicate that the trough in economic activity is near and growth will soon regain momentum. There remain many obstacles over the next few months however, the largest being the general election."   The turn for the better was consistent with an improving international economy and an expected easing in monetary conditions. "The tax cuts also appear to have put a kick in people's step, as has the incresed possibilty of a stable economic policy environment post-election," Orr said. A net 11 percent of respondents now anticipate interest rates to deteriorate over the next 12 months, a significant swing from last month.   This was consistent with slightly lower inflation expectations of 2.6 percent and anticipation of a rise in unemployment. "However, significant falls in interest rates can only be anticipated once the Reserve Bank grants permission. This is unlikely this side of the (October 12) general election," Orr said. A net 24 percent of respondents now expected a rise in their activity levels, with all sectors optimistic on balance. This was a turnaround from the downward trend registered since December.   This increase in business activity was supported by the expectations for exports, with a net 28 percent of respondents anticipating an increase in export volumes. Investment intentions crept ahead of the June level with a net 10 percent of respondents expecting to increase investment over the next year. However, investment intentions in the construction and agriculture sectors remained firmly negative. The majority of respondents expected to increase employment in the next 12 months but unemployment is still expected to rise, particularly in the agriculture sector.   Profit expectations have also improved, with a net 7.2 percent of respondents expecting a stronger profit over the next 12 months. Only the agriculture sector continued to expect a slimmer bottom line. The construction sector was continuing to register divergent trends. The outlook for commercial construction remained significantly more positive than its residential counterpart. --Wellington Newsroom (64 4) 4734746