The inaugural meeting of Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation energy ministers ended on Thursday vowing to help business invest in power projects to meet the region's huge energy demands, but safeguarding the environment. The ministers warned that the energy needs of the Asia-Pacific region would put considerable pressure on the region's environment. "Ministers agreed that the application of economically sound measures to minimise the adverse environmental impacts of energy production and use is essential to protect the well being of both present and future generations," the ministers said in their declaration titled "Energy: Our Region Our Future". Australian Resources and Energy Minister Warwick Parer said ministers agreed to co-operate in research and development programmes aimed at cleaner, more efficient fuel and alternative energy sources. "There was agreement that the challenge of protecting the environment involved improving the efficiency with which energy is produced and used, using techniques and practices that reduce emissions and switching to more environmentally benign energy sources, including renewable resources," Parer said. The ministers said governments were unable to find the US$1.6 trillion needed to meet the region's energy demands. There was unanimous recognition that if the funds were to be found, government and business needed to forge a partnership. "Such cooperation will reap mutually rewarding benefits for all," Parer said. APEC expects energy consumption among its 18 members to grow by around 2.2 percent a year until 2010, compared with only one percent a year for the area represented by the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). During the two days of talks, the ministers expressed concerns that without the help of business the need for new energy would not be met, stunting the economic growth of one of the world's fastest growing regions. The concerns were contained in a non-binding list of 14 principles, aimed at harmonising regional energy policy, which will be presented at the APEC leaders meeting in the Philippines in November. "Those points among other things ensure member economies will pursue policies for enhancing the efficient production, distribution and consumption of energy," Parer said. The 18-member APEC group has set a goal of free trade regimes by the year 2010 for developed member economies and year 2020 for developing economies. APEC groups Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia, Japan, South Korea, Malaysia, Mexico, New Zealand, Papua New Guinea, the Philippines, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand, and the United States. But energy companies have reacted with caution to APEC's desire to embrace the private sector. They have argued that while APEC is too big to ignore, subsidies, technological protectionism and tariff and non-tariff trade barriers present formidable obstacles. Despite the risks, there is huge potential for growth in APEC's energy sector, said analysts. Robert Moeller, of management firm Booz-Allen & Hamilton, estimates China needs to build the equivalent of a one new large power station a month to keep up with its forecast demand for energy.