Iraqi-origin gas oil (diesel) has not been offered for sale in the Gulf in the past six months, trading sources in Fujairah, the United Arab Emirates, said on Thursday. Earlier on Thursday, a U.S. official at the United Nations said Washington had evidence that Iranian Revolutionary Guard forces were aiding Iraq in the export of gas oil. A U.S. official said the allegations were based on statistical data, confirmed by personal interviews with those involved and other physical proof. "It is still going on and in an increased way," Tono Eitel, German Ambassador to the United Nations and head of its sanctions panel, said on Wednesday. But trading sources in the Gulf said they had not seen any gas oil being offered in the market for up to six months that matched Iraqi specifications. "About four-to-six months ago traders were selling gas oil that were about $50 per tonne below the prevailing market price," one trader said by telephone. "These cargoes, when tested, had specifications that were consistent with that exported by Iraq in the past," he added.   Traders said the cargoes, of about 2,000 tonnes each, were sold in barges in the Gulf area and used as marine diesel, they said. However, the source said that such offers had ceased some time early this year. Trading sources said the offers ceased at about the same time Iraq began negotiations with the U.N. over the oil-for-food sale that was agreed in principle on May 20. Traders in Singapore said none of the potentially Iraqi-origin gas oil had been exported to Asia. The only significant change in the Gulf oil trading pattern seen recently was a bigger than usual export of Iranian gas oil and fuel oil, they said. Earlier on Thursday, Iran's state news agency IRNA said the country's U.N. envoy, Kamal Kharazi, "dismissed the U.S. claims that Tehran has been involved in Baghdad's violation of the U.N. economic sanctions by allowing Iraqi ships to smuggle oil through Iranian waters." Trading sources in Singapore said Iran had doubled fuel oil exports in July from the usual eight cargoes of 70,000-80,000 tonnes each to about 16 cargoes.   Iran had also started exporting gas oil of up to 40,000-50,000 tonnes per cargo in the past few months, they added. Traders said Iran was not a usual exporter of gas oil and some of these cargoes were sold to Pakistan and Singapore. Iranian gas oil has 1.00 percent sulphur and these cargoes were sold at about 20-40 cents per barrel above the MidEast spot prices on a cost-and-freight basis, which was in line with the prevailing spot price, they added. -- Singapore Newsroom (+65-870-3093)