Mushrooming regional trading blocs and disguised protectionism from countries facing economic downturns are the new threats to free trade, economists told a seminar in Manila on Tuesday. The proliferation of trading blocs had led to fears that they would simply replace former barriers to free trade, delegates to the two-day meeting organised by the Asian Development Bank (ADB) were told. "Regional trade blocs are like building blocks. Each small area is being cleaned up and together they can become one clean area," said ADB chief economist Vishvanath Desai. "But if people start putting walls around their own little clean areas, then there is a problem." The meeting of academics from 10 Asian countries will study if the World Trade Organisation's (WTO) goal of free trade has moved forward or regressed since the Uruguay Round of talks. The Uruguay Round was held under the auspices of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the precursor to the WTO. ADB vice-president Peter Sullivan said there had been suggestions that the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation forum (APEC) should be turned into another trading bloc. "Preferential trading arrangements must be viewed with a healthy measure of scepticism," he added. These include the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA); the ASEAN Free Trade Area (AFTA), ASEAN being the Association of South East Asian Nations; the Brunei Indonesia Malaysia Philippines-East ASEAN Growth Area (BIMP-EAGA); and the Trans-Atlactic Free Trade Area (TAFTA). Haiying Zhao, a professor at the School of Economics and Finance at the University of Hong Kong, said NAFTA had given Mexico the upper hand over China in textile exports to the United States. Zhao added that the European Union had signed a similar preferential agreement with Turkey, again to the detriment of China which leads the world textiles export market. She said another problem was that countries facing an economic downturn were increasingly resorting to "disguised protectionism". "Anti-dumping has become the most popular trade remedy among the industrialised countries ... developing countries have also joined the trend," Zhao said. Anti-dumping measures are legal under WTO rules while raising tariffs has been made more difficult. In 1958, around three-dozen anti-dumping orders were in effect in all GATT member countries. In 1990, Canada alone had more than 100 orders. In the United States, one anti-dumping case was initiated in 1960, nine cases were initiated in 1970, 26 cases in 1980 and 42 in 1990, Zhao said. The Malaysian delegation, represented by University of Malaya professors Mohamed Ariff, Mahani Zainal-Abiddin and Tan Eu Chye, spoke of other forms of disguised protectionism. They said Japan's multi-tiered distribution system, which channelled products through several wholesalers and retailers, pushed up an imported product's price threefold. They also blamed the U.S. for seeking conformity to various technical, consumer and environmental protection requirements. The European Union was said to have erected disguised trade barriers by a recent ruling which specifies using dedicated vessels to transport food items which will lead to an increase in freight costs.