Taiwan's state-owned Chinese Petroleum received another blow on Thursday when an oil leak shut a second north crude oil unit, the sixth accident since August 9. The company shut one of its two unloading units on Wednesday after finding minor oil leaks. The second unit was shut down due to problems in a pipeline connector, officials said without elaborating. The first unit was expected to resume operations on Saturday. The second unit was still under repair. The leaks followed five other accidents, including oil leaks and fires, that have cost the domestic oil monopoly more than T$1.1 billion ($40 million) in compensation. The state firm reached an agreement with local residents on Tuesday, promising one of Taiwan's highest compensation payouts to victims of previous accidents. More than  5,000 residents have registered as victims in the company's No.5 naphtha cracker oil leak and 8,000 more fishermen were seeking compensation over sea pollution. Dozens of officials at Chinese Petroleum, including its president Chen Kuo-young, have received internal administrative punishments and its chairman Chang Tzu-yuan received an "oral reprimand" from Economics Minister Wang Chih-kang. The series of accidents prompted the oil giant to seek better luck through Buddhist and Taoist ceremonies during the Chinese Ghost Month, or lunar July, which falls between August 14 and September 12, 1996. "We had held a ceremony on Wednesday, giving a feast to 'hungry ghosts'," company official Ho Li-chun said. Chinese believe that ghost ceremonies will erase bad luck. More than 600 employees, led by company president Chen Kao-yon, took part in the ceremony praying for better luck. Although the latest leak was controlled within an hour and cleanup crews were dispersing the oil, unloading of the 250,000-tonne Bahamas-registered tanker Sailor was halted and the vessel moored nearby. Minor oil spills were also reported on Thursday, but were not expected to affect wildlife, a manager at the Taoyuan oil refinery said by telephone. ($1 =T$27.5) -- Taipei Newsroom (2-5080815)