Thailand's economy continued its slowdown in July with export and private investment growth sluggish, the central bank said on Thursday. Key monthly economic indicators released by the central bank showed Thai exports rose only 3.8 percent to 801.5 billion baht ($32 billion) during the first seven months of 1996 against 26.2 percent for the same 1995 period. The Thai trade deficit narrowed to 30.0 billion baht in July from a revised deficit of 35.5 billion baht in June. The bank said the June current account deficit, the latest monthly figure available, narrowed to an estimated 34.0 billion baht from 35.5 billion in May. The investment index rose 8.5 percent year-on-year in July, its eighth consecutive slower monthly growth rate and a rate less than half of the 17.4 percent rise recorded a year ago. Overall bank credit growth, excluding lending by offshore banking units, increased 14.5 percent year-on-year in July against 15.8 percent in June and 24.0 percent a year ago. Central bank deputy chief economist Suchada Kirakul told a news conference that the slowing investment index and bank credit growth pointed to a continued economic slowdown which she said lacked signs of bottoming out. "The slowdown may not have bottomed out based on the investment index and bank credits," she said. Suchada said the central bank needed more time to determine whether its adjusted export growth target of 10.2 percent for the whole of 1996 was achievable. The 10.2 percent target had been scaled down from 17.4 percent set earlier for this year and compared with 23.6 percent growth in 1995. Suchada said Thailand also posted a net capital outflow in July, partly due to a decision by most banks to repay short-term dollar loans amid market rumours against the baht. She confirmed expectations by analysts that market jitters of a possible baht devaluation in late July and early August eroded Thai foreign reserves that the central bank used to defend the baht. Finance Minister Bodi Chunananda and central bank governor Rerngchai Marakanond have ruled out any devaluation of the baht. Rernchai has warned speculators they would get burned by putting more pressure on the baht as his bank would enter spot and forward swap currency markets if necessary to defend it. But Sriyan Pietrez, chief strategist at Bangkok Nomura Plc, said sporadic market attacks on the baht would resume as long as the market perceives baht devaluation as a possible remedy the government may choose to boost export competitiveness. Suchada declined to say how much foreign reserves the bank had used in its baht intervention in local and foreign markets. She said end-July reserves dipped to $39.4 billion from $39.8 billion a month earlier. (US$1 = 25 baht)