The World Trade Organisation's (WTO) success in freeing trade is being negated by slower growth in developed countries, which are using protectionist measures to limit some imports, an economist said on Thursday. "Anti-dumping has become the most popular trade remedy among the industrialised countries ... developing countries have also joined the trend," Haiying Zhao, a professor at the School of Economics and Finance at the University of Hong Kong, told a seminar of academics from 10 Asian countries. In 1958, around three-dozen anti-dumping orders were in effect in all countries that were members of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), the forerunner to the WTO. In 1990, Canada alone had more than 100 orders. In the United States, one anti-dumping case was initiated in 1960, nine cases were initiated in 1970, 26 cases in 1980 and 42 in 1990, Zhao said. She said the use of anti-dumping as a protectionist tool had increased because WTO rules had made it difficult to raise tariffs. "The recent slowdown in economic growth in developed countries has resulted in increasing protectionist pressure. Due to difficulties in raising tariffs, grey area protectionist measures such as voluntary export restraints have gained importance," Zhao said in a paper presented at the seminar. "Measures that are legally sanctioned under GATT/WTO, such as anti-dumping measures, have been increasingly used and/or misused for protectionist purposes." A paper presented by Malaysian delegates said: "The (WTO's) liberalisation measures need to be examined to see whether they will effectively promote trade or can be disguised as trade barriers." The paper, presented by University of Malaya professors Mohamed Ariff, Mahani Zainal-Abiddin and Tan Eu Chye, said that some countries had erected non-tariff trade barriers. For instance, the professors said Japan's multi-tiered distribution system, which channelled products through several wholesalers and retailers, pushed up an imported product's price by three times. It also blamed the United States for seeking conformity to various technical, consumer and environmental protection requirements. The European Union was said to have erected disguised trade barriers by a recent ruling which specifies using dedicated vessels to transport food items which will lead to an increase in freight costs. Other countries the Malaysian delegation accused of hidden trade barriers were Australia, Taiwan, China, the Philippines, Indonesia and Thailand.