A group of scientists claimed in a study published on Thursday that it had found the first fossilized evidence some dinosaurs were coldblooded. But several experts said the research did not close the debate over whether dinosaurs were coldblooded or warmblooded and the question might never be fully answered. "It's going to stir up the alligators a bit, and maybe it will make some people think, but it's not going to lead to a resolution," Nicholas Hotton, research paleontologist emeritus at the Smithsonsian Institution, said. Computed axial tomography -- or CAT scans -- of "superbly preserved specimens" of Cretaceous dinosaurs showed they had nasal anatomy similar to that of such coldblooded modern animals as crocodiles and other lizards, the researchers said in the study, published in the magazine Science. The scanned specimens included a Tyrannosaurus rexlike dinosaur; a velociraptor, or biped type; an ostrich type; and a duckbilled type, all of which lived toward the end of the dinosaurs' era, the researchers said. The specimens, including both flesh-eaters and plant-eaters, represent a broad spectrum of dinosaurs, and they "look to be clearly reptilian," Nicholas Geist of Oregon State University, one of the researchers, said. Scientists have long argued about dinosaurs' metabolisms. "There was a period starting in the '70s when everyone jumped on the bandwagon that they were warmblooded, but a lot of people have been backing off lately, because evidence is increasing that they were coldblooded," Geist said. The scans showed that the dinosaurs had narrow, tubelike nasal passages with no trace of respiratory turbinates, spiral structures that in such warmblooded animals as birds and mammals increase the surface area of their nasal passages. Respiratory turbinates reduce the otherwise sharply accelerated rates of evaporative heat and water loss that would come with high breathing rates. Their absence indicates that the dinosaurs' breathing and metabolic rates were low enough to keep evaporative heat and water loss from being a problem, the study said. "This by no means means they were sluggish, dull and uninteresting animals. I think the popular conceptions of them being fairly quick-moving and dangerous kinds of animals is probably pretty accurate," Oregon State University's John Ruben, the chief researcher, said. "What has been probably wrong is the notion that in order to be that way, they would have had to have been warmblooded," he told Reuters. Research on dinosaurs' metabolisms -- which would hold clues to their feeding, reproductive and overall living habits -- has been hampered because most information was contained in soft tissue, which did not fossilize. Some experts familiar with the study said they remained doubtful that the lack of respiratory turbinates was solid evidence of metabolic rates or that the fossils could adequately show an absence of turbinates. "I'm very sceptical that this particular line of evidence outweighs all others," said Hans-Dieter Sues, curator of fossil vertebrates at the Royal Ontario Museum and zoology professor at the University of Toronto. Sues said there was evidence that at least some dinosaurs had rapid growth rates and moved quickly over long distances, pointing to warmbloodedness. Some scientists believe their bone structures indicate the same thing, he added. Over their 160 million years on earth, dinosaurs may have evolved to be both warmblooded and coldblooded and variations in between, Sues and others said. "There was no such thing as 'the dinosaur.' There were many groups of dinosaurs, and they were all different," Michael Brett-Surman, dinosaur specialist at the Smithsonian Institution, said.