President Clinton proposed Thursday a plan that would spare most home-sellers from capital gains taxes  and give employers tax incentive to hire people off the welfare rolls. Clinton was to unveil the plan in a speech to the Democratic Convention Thursday night, but the White House released details beforehand. Key components included: -- Increasing and expanding the $125,000 capital gains tax exclusion on home sale profits. Clinton would raise the exlusion to $250,000 for individuals and $500,000 for couples and make it available to all Americans, not just those 55 and older as current law provides. -- Offering various tax incentives, including employer tax credits of up to $5,000 per worker, to get them to hire people off the welfare rolls. The $3.4 billion dollar proposal was designed to cushion the impact of a controversial welfare reform bill Clinton signed last week. Gene Sperling, a senior economic adviser to Clinton, said the plan to ease taxes on home sale profits would give homeowners more flexibilty to relocate without penalty if they move to an area where homes are cheaper. "With this provision, 99.7 percent of all homeowners will not pay a capitol gains tax when they sell their home," Sperling said. The tax break is now limited to older home-sellers on a one-time-only basis, who theoretically can turn their equity into a retirement nest-egg by moving from a larger to smaller homes. Clinton's proposed expansion would be relatively inexpensive -- $1.4 billion -- because most younger home- sellers plough their profits into a costlier dwelling and thus are exempt from capital gains taxes. The tax proposals were part of an $8.4 billion Clinton re- election agenda that the president began laying out in his whistlestop train trip to the convention. Other elements include a $2.7 billion national literacy campaign for children and a $1.9 billion anti-pollution plan. Drawing a distinction with the $548 billion across-the board tax cut plan proposed by Republican presidential candidate Bob Dole, which Clinton claims would balloon the deficit, the White House said some corporate taxes would be raised to offset the cost of the president's plan. Merger fees and fuel taxes for corporate jets would be among things affected.