President Bill Clinton's campaign strategist, Dick Morris, announced his resignation on Thursday after a tabloid newspaper reported he had a long affair with a prostitute, marring one of the most crucial days of Clinton's career. "While I served I sought to avoid the limelight because I did not want to become the message," Morris said in a written resignation statement issued to hordes of reporters at Clinton's hotel. "Now, I resign so I will not become the issue." The departure of Morris, a critical player in the move by Clinton to the political centre that may have cleared the way for a second term, could not have come at a worse time for the president. Clinton was later due to give his speech at the Democratic convention accepting the party's re-nomination in what should have been a moment of pure triumph. Clinton, closeted in his suite at the Sheraton Chicago hotel working on the speech, issued a statement through White House spokesman Mike McCurry thanking Morris for his work. "Dick Morris is my friend, and he is a superb political strategist. I am and always will be grateful for the great contributions he has made to my campaigns and for the invaluable work he has done for me over the last two years," Clinton said. The shock development took some of the air out of Clinton and his campaign, buoyed at a double-digit lead in the polls over Republican nominee Bob Dole, and a  succesful four-day whistlestop train tour through the Midwest. "It's a disappointment, that's for sure. It makes us all look bad," a White House official told Reuters. But he added that Morris was "not the campaign, the president is the campaign." Another official however said there was no question the allegations against Morris were politically damaging to Clinton. "The problem is it raises the integrity issue," the official said. Morris' resignation followed a report that the married 48-year-old political strategist had a year-long affair with a 37-year-old callgirl at the Jefferson Hotel in Washington, his base while working for Clinton. The report was published by the supermarket weekly tabloid Star magazine and reprinted in Thursday's edition of the New York Post. The Post said the tabloid had photos and videotapes to back up its story. The Star said Morris bragged to the woman, who it identified as Sherry Rowlands, about how powerful he was, letting her secretly listen to phone conversations with the president and revealing his nicknames for the Clintons - "The Monster" for the president and "the Twister" for first lady Hillary Clinton. The magazine said Morris let Rowlands read the first lady's speech to the convention in Chicago five nights before she delivered it. Rowlands, who lives in the Virginia suburbs of Washington, kept a diary, The Star said, in which she included steamy details of their affair and accounts of secrets that Morris allegedly told her, including one that "only seven in the world know about" -- the discovery of possible life on Mars. A week later the announcement was made that traces of a primitive life form were found on a meteorite that crashed into Earth 13,000 years ago. McCurry said he had no knowledge about the truth of the report but urged news organisations to be careful about reporting them. Morris said in his statement he resigned on Wednesday night and would have no comment on the charges. "I will not dignify such journalism with a reply or an answer. I never will," he said. McCurry said Clinton was told when he woke up that "Mr. Morris had submitted his resignation and was on his way back home." "He was surprised at the allegations, but was very quick to underscore to everyone, we should consider the source," McCurry told a packed news briefing. He described Morris' resignation as voluntary.