Hilton Hotels Corp., soon to be the largest hotelier in the United States, grew a little bigger Thursday when it unveiled a plan to merge the Hilton brand name overseas and domestically for the first time in 32 years. Hilton will pay roughly $180 million to acquire 5 percent of Ladbroke Group PLC, a London-based hotel and gambling concern that owns the Hilton name overseas. Ladbroke and Hilton will form a separate company to unify the operations, marketing and development of all Hilton hotels, giving them control of more than 400 hotels in 49 countries. Each will contribute to future properties around the world. The deal unites the Hilton brand, which has been split since Beverly Hills, Calif.-based Hilton spun off its overseas operations in 1964, forming Hilton International. Ladbroke acquired Hilton International in 1987. "If what we had before was a separation, I guess it's now fair to say we are engaged," Hilton Chief Executive Stephen Bollenbach said in a news conference in London. Following the news, Hilton Hotels' stock rose $1 on the New York Stock Exchange but dropped for a loss of 37.5 cents to $106.50 in late afternoon trading. "It makes all the sense in the world to put together the two names," said Dennis Forst, an analyst at Hancock Institutional Equity Services. He said it is too soon to know how much the deal will add to revenue growth at Hilton, but said "it definitely is accretive (to earnings)." Bollenbach and Ladbroke's chief executive, Peter George, said it was difficult to quantify how much the deal would add to the companies' revenues because the benefits come from funnelling each firm's customers to the other operator, offering worldwide discounts and promotions, and developing future properties. The two executives said the deal could add "tens of millions of dollars" to earnings by 1998 and 1999. "It's hard to see a downside," George said. Under the terms of the deal, Bollenbach will join the board of directors of Ladbroke, and George will sit on Hilton Hotels' board. The two will also participate in an oversight committee on brand unity and promotion. Bollenbach is a former Walt Disney Co. executive who joined Hilton Hotels in February. For future hotel and gambling developments, the two companies gain the ability to contribute 20 percent of capital and participate in 20 percent of the profits. The deal ends months of speculation over whether the two would merge their companies or form an alliance, such as the one announced Thursday. Since joining Hilton in February, Bollenbach has made it his mission to rapidly expand the company. In June, Hilton said it would acquire Bally Entertainment Inc. in a deal valued at more than $2 billion that, when completed this fall, will create the largest U.S.hotel and gambling concern. Bollenbach said he and George have been talking about a plan to unite the brand name since he first joined Hilton. "It was one of the first phone calls I made," he said. "One of our stated growth objectives has been to leverage the powerful Hilton brand name by expanding our international presence, and this agreement with Ladbroke is a significant step toward achieving that goal," Bollenbach said. The deal gives Hilton Hotels a bigger presence in the international hotel business and allows Ladbroke an opportunity to participate in Hilton's growing gambling business in the United States. Hilton International will expand Hilton's franchises in Mexico and Canada and participate in popular Hilton customer promotions like its Hilton Honours frequent guest programme, which has 5 million members. The two also said they will explore the development of mid-market hotels around the world modelled on Hilton's Hilton Garden Inns concept in the United States.