By Gail Appleson, Law Correspondent State attorneys general suing the tobacco industry are proposing a 15-year, $150 billion legislative settlement of both state and individual suits to compensate for smoking-related illnesses, a key official said Thursday. Following news earlier this week about the joint proposal, Mississippi Attorney Michael Moore told Reuters details of the draft law, which would cover the roughly 200 individual suits pending around the country. It proposes that the industry put up a total of $12 billion the first year, half of which would go to the states and half to cover any liability from individual suits. The amounts would increase incrementally over 15 years. "This would be a full and final resolution of litigation in the country," Moore said. "The thought behind that is that the tobacco companies cannot settle one case. They would have to settle all cases," he said. The draft excludes any potential criminal actions. The Justice Department is currently conducting several investigations into the tobacco industry, including one into allegations that cigarette makers hid the health hazards of smoking from federal agencies. A total of 14 attorneys general have sued the industry to recoup health care costs of smokers. The lieutenant governor of Alabama has also filed suit as a private attorney on behalf of public agencies, and Moore said he expected five more states to file by the end of September. Moore said that a committee of seven attorneys general is working on the proposal and would meet at the end of next week to discuss revisions to the draft. He said the attorneys general have been negotiating with the industry through intermediaries, including John Sears, a Republican political strategist affiliated with Bob Dole's presidential election campaign. Moore said the group has not met with tobacco representatives directly. "We have bounced ideas through the White House, the FDA, and Senate and congressional leaders. We've taken input from a lot of people as to just what a global solution should be." Last week the White House approved Food and Drug Administration regulation of cigarettes in an effort to keep cigarettes away from children. The attorneys general proposal provides that in the first year, cigarette makers pay $6 billion to compensate all 50 states for Medicaid costs of smokers. From this amount would come about $500 million to pay the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services for anti-smoking messages during the first year of the proposed legislation. The draft also proposes that the industry pay another $6 billion in 1997 into a fund to cover any liability from suits filed by individual smokers. The fund would be used to pay plaintiffs who win through trials or arbitration. He said there would be ceilings placed on amounts paid to plaintiffs, probably about $1 million each. Initial reports of the proposal drew criticism from some attorneys general and personal injury lawyers who did not know about the negotiations. The tobacco industry also raised objections. "Our tobacco subsidiary is not interested in -- and has no intention of settling the cases against it and remains confident in the strength of its defences," RJR Nabisco Holdings Corp. said in a statement. Moore said information about the draft had been leaked earlier this week, well before the attorneys general were ready to present a proposal. "This is a possible solution. It's something that started on a whim and it somehow got legs. The industry has shown a lot of interest in it. It may or may not work. "We won't push for legislation unless there is consensus from the White House, the FDA, from attorneys general, from personal injury lawyers and public health advocates all across the country," he said.