President Bill Clinton prepared to accept the Democratic nomination on Thursday but his effort to focus attention on his plans for a second term was marred by the resignation of a top aide over a reported sex scandal. Clinton, described as "fired up" for the 10-week campaign against Republican rival Bob Dole, was working on the acceptance speech he will deliver to the final session of the Democratic Convention opening at 8 p.m. EDT (0001 GMT). But just hours before that event Clinton's campaign was rocked by a new scandal involving top political adviser Dick Morris, who campaign aides said resigned after published reports linked him to a year-long affair with a prostitute. The tabloid Star magazine reported that Morris let the prostitute listen in on telephone conversations with Clinton and read copies of convention speeches before they were delivered. Clinton will hit the road on Friday for a bus tour across several states in his fight to become the first Democratic incumbent re-elected to a second term since the days of Franklin D. Rosevelt. The 73-year-old Dole, winding up a California vacation interspersed with campaigning, had an eye on what was happening in Chicago. He fired a shot at Vice President Al Gore, calling him the party's "hatchet man." That was in response to Gore's combative speech to the convention on Wednesday night in which he took on Dole by name and in detail. The attack was in contrast to Clinton who has so far largely emphasised his record but kept attacks on Dole and the Republican party to generic ones. Aides said Clinton planned to spend the day in his hotel room several miles from the convention hall working on his speech, which may have been neglected on his long train trip to the convention city during which he spoke to friendly crowds across the country's heartland. He was also reported somewhat hoarse and was giving his voiced a rest. But first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton was speaking, telling ABC television, "He's really fired up." "He wants to outline to the American people what he thinks has been accomplished in the last four years, and what he would like to see done in the next four years," she said. "He's very excited about this convention," she added. "He's excited about the campaign. But more than that, he's very resolute about what he wants to do." "I  don't take anything for granted. I always expect elections to get close. I expect to have a great deal of up and down days between now and then," she said of the Nov. 5 election date. Clinton is leading Dole by as much as 15 points according to some polls. The campaign pits Dole, a man of quick and withering wit and long-time public service against the glib and confident Clinton, who at age 50 has perfected the look-them-in-their-face speaking style. Gore depicted Dole on Wednesday as a remnant of the past who blocked progressive ideas during his years in  Congress. "Apparently he's the hatchet man for the Democrats, It's not unexpected coming from Al Gore," Dole replied. "It's unfortunate but not unexpected." When he launched his campaign at the end of the Republican convention in San Diego, Dole questioned Clinton's trustworthiness and indirectly criticised Mrs. Clinton. Within minutes after Gore had spoken on Wednesday, Sen. Christopher Dodd of Connecticut, the party chairman, called for a high ground campaign that may be difficult for either side to reach. "Let us do our part to restore civility to America's political discourse. Let us lead by example. Let us not dishonour our democracy," he said. "The American people are fed up with relentless assaults on people's reputations.  This has to stop and it must stop now," he said. "And I say this to our political opponents: Stop attacking the president's family." "The American people want you to stick to the issues," he said. "We may at times oppose one another, but we must always respect each other. And let us begin now." Speaking of Dole's World War Two military service, which left Dole with wounds that mark him to this day, Dodd said, "Let me say Sen. Robert Dole, on behalf of the thousands here in this United Centre -- thank you. Thank you from a generation of Americans living in freedom because of your sacrifices." "It is not Bob Dole's reputation that I question. It is his agenda for America," he added. "Sometimes a fine person has flawed ideas. This is such a time."