Powerful Hurricane Edouard continued its march across the open waters of the Atlantic on Thursday as weaker Hurricane Fran approached the Caribbean, prompting alerts in the Leeward Islands. The National Hurricane Centre was tracking a series of tropical weather systems that stretched across the Atlantic Ocean from off the coast of Africa almost to the Bahamas. Edouard, with maximum winds rising to 130 mph (215 kph), was heading west-northwest but forecasters continued to predict a more northerly turn on Thursday. They advised residents of the U.S. mid-Atlantic coast to keep a close watch on the storm's progress. "We still have to keep our eye on Edouard but we're expecting a turn in its course today," said hurricane centre forecaster Bill Fredericks. If it turns as many computer models predict, it could leave the U.S. coast untouched. At 11 a.m. EDT (1500 GMT), Edouard was 865 miles (1,400 km) south-southeast of Cape Hatteras, at latitude 24.3 north and longitude 68.6 west. It was moving west-northwest at 14 mph (22 kph). In coastal areas of North Carolina, battered by Hurricane Bertha in mid-July, residents and business owners took a wait-and-see attitude. Motel owners in Hatteras Village said they had had few cancellations as people seemed to be staying with their Labour Day weekend plans, at least for the moment. "I think people are waiting to see what it's going to do," said Katie Oden, owner of the Sea Gull motel. "It might hurt us even if it does turn but you got to take it as it comes." Hurricane watches -- alerting residents to storm conditions within 36 hours -- were issued for the northeastern Caribbean islands of Antigua, Barbuda, Anguilla, Montserrat, Nevis, St. Kitts, St. Martin, St. Barthelemy, St. Eustatius and Saba as Fran approached the Leeward Islands. At 11 a.m. EDT (1500 GMT), it was located 300 miles (490 km) east of Antigua, at latitude 17.9 north and longitude 57.2 west, and moving west-northwest at 15 mph (24 kmh). The storm strengthened overnight, becoming a minimal hurricane with top winds of 75 mph (120 kmh), but forecasters said they expected it to gain further strength on Thursday. Tropical Storm Gustav was lined up behind Fran, at latitude 13.9 north and longitude 37.6 west, about 860 miles (1380 km) west-southwest of the Cape Verde Islands. It had maximum winds of 45 mph (75 kmh) and was on a northwesterly course that was expected to keep the storm safely out at sea. "It's the busiest time of the year for hurricanes," Fredericks said. "The peak of the season is always around the Labour Day holiday."