Investigators reported little progress Thursday in the search for clues to the crash of TWA Flight 800 and voiced concern that storms brewing in the Caribbean would churn up wreckage still lying on the Atlantic Ocean floor. The search is focused on the "debris field" furthest away from Kennedy International Airport, where the Paris-bound plane departed July 17. The Boeing 747 burst into a fireball a few minutes after take-off, killing all 230 people on board. Searchers have recovered more than half of the debris that stretched in a mile-and-a-half-long swath at sea. Investigators have found chemical explosive traces on the debris but say they do not have enough evidence to determine whether a bomb, a missile or mechanical failure caused the crash. At the site off the coast of Long Island, N.Y., U.S. Navy searchers expected eight to 10-foot seas due to Hurricane Edouard that was brewing off the coast of North Carolina, said Rear Adm. Edward Kristensen. A weaker Hurricane Fran was moving through the northeastern Caribbean, and Tropical Storm Gustav was not far behind, the National Weather Service said. "The potential is there ... to move the debris on the bottom," said Kristensen of the storms. Should that occur, he said, the Navy would use high-powered side-scanning sonar to relocate the wreckage. Robert Francis, vice chairman of the National Transportation Safety Board, said the storms could slow the investigation. "If we end up with one or more of those storms coming into this area, obviously we'll have to shut down," he said. James Kallstrom, the chief FBI investigator in the case, asked beachgoers to contact authorities if they spot debris washing up over the long Labour Day holiday weekend. Wreckage has been found more than 100 miles (160 km) away on the New Jersey shore, and Kallstrom said police departments had been alerted as far south as Washington, D.C. Kallstrom said the investigation could continue apace even though the search for debris might be slowed. "There's nothing that is hamstringing the FBI to solve this case," he said. Of the 230 passengers and crew killed, the bodies of 211 have been recovered.