The alleged sex scandal involving President Bill Clinton's top political adviser, Dick Morris, stunned Democratic Convention delegates on Thursday but they predicted Clinton would weather the storm. Republicans said the alleged affair that caused Morris to resign blighted Clinton's big acceptance speech night and the president had lost a brilliant adviser. "I'm horrified," said Democratic convention delegate Madge Overhouse, a widow from Los Gatos, California. The reaction of Overhouse was typical of delegates interviewed as the story of Morris' resigning after reports of a seamy sexual affair unfolded hours before Clinton was due to address the nation with his renomination acceptance address. Overhouse and others interviewed blamed Morris for foolhardiness and indiscretion for allegedly cavorting with a $200-a-hour "escort" while working for the president. But many believed damage to Clinton would be short lived now that Morris has quit. "It won't last," said Overhouse. Morris, a 48-year-old married political consultant who worked for Republican candidates in the past as well as advising Clinton over the years, is credited with helping the president came back in the polls in the past two years. Sen. Dianne Feinstein, a California Democrat, called the report a "bump in the road ... a big bump." "It comes at the worst possible times on one of the biggest days for the president," she said. "It just makes one wonder about loyalty in public life, judgment, those kinds of things of people who surround somebody who obviously is vulnerable a few months before an election," she said. Balwant Singh, 64, a Sikh originally from Punjab, India, but now an American citizen, said, "The news is shocking ... Morris let the president down and what he did was wrong and he owes the public an apology." "His private life does not bother me," said Paula Robinson of New Mexico. "He let the president down." She said the impact will die down since Clinton "is doing a superb job." Republicans had a different slant since they have accused Morris of being the person advising Clinton to steal Republican issues and make them his own. "Morris has been trying to make President Clinton a Republican, now maybe he'll revert to the liberal Democrat that he (Clinton) really is," Republican challenger Bob Dole told reporters in Santa Barbara, California. He declined to say if the development would help him catch up to Clinton in polls. Tony Blankey, spokesman for Republican House Speaker Newt Gingrich, said the episode has "two fairly substantial consequences: It's going to blemish the president's big night ... the larger, longer-term consequence is it's going to affect the ability of Bill Clinton to run the campaign that he wanted to run" without Morris' advice. Democratic activist Jesse Jackson said quitting "was the only thing he could do. It was the right thing to do." But earlier Jackson ripped into Morris in Thursday's USA Today for getting Clinton to back welfare curbs. "I don't know whether Dick Morris is apolitical," Jackson said. "But he is amoral. He does not care about ideology."