A new poll suggested Thursday that 52 percent of the voters in Dr. Jack Kevorkian's home state believe he was wrong to help a non-terminally ill 42-year-old Massachusetts woman die earlier this month. But the same poll showed that Kevorkian's string of assisted suicides in August had not dampened the public's overwhelming belief that some form of physician-assisted suicide should be allowed. Kevorkian, who has helped 38 people die since 1990, has been roundly criticised for his role in the Aug. 15 death of Judith Curren of Pembroke, Mass. Curren suffered from chronic fatique syndrome and other ailments that left her incapacitated and in constant pain, according to Kevorkian. The Oakland County medical examiner said Curren, a registered nurse and the mother of two children, was overweight but had no terminal disease. On Thursday, a spokesman for the coroner said Curren died from an intravenous injection of a poisonous substance, making her death a homicide. In the poll by EPIC/MRA, a Lansing, Mich.-based company, 30 percent of the 600 active voters contacted in Michigan thought the Curren death showed Kevorkian was getting reckless in his methods and should be controlled. Twenty-two percent thought Kevorkian was always wrong to help others die, while 39 percent said they supported the 68-year-old retired pathologist. "What I'm beginning to see here is there is a possibility that if Kevorkian keeps this style up, then I think legislation could be crafted to put a stop to some of his actions," said Ed Sarpolus, vice president of EPIC/MRI. The poll was conducted Aug. 20-22 and had a margin of error of 4 percent. Respondents were also asked if Michigan should again ban assisted suicides. Forty-one percent said the government should stay out of the issue, while 34 percent said rules should be devised to prevent abuses. Twenty-two percent said legislators should impose another law prohibiting assisted suicide. Michigan had a temporary ban on the practice except when a physician acted to relieve pain and suffering, but the law expired in November 1994 after legislators refused to renew the ban. Michael Schwartz, one of Kevorkian's attorneys, said Thursday the poll's first question was not a referendum on his client's methods because it was biased. Instead of just referring to the coroner's finding about Curren's condition, the question should have mentioned that her own doctors confirmed she had a serious illness and was in great pain, he said. "It's a loaded question," said Schwartz. Schwartz said the second finding confirmed that people continued to support what Kevorkian was doing. Juries acquitted Kevorkian three times in two years on assisted suicide charges.