The United States said on Thursday it was watching Iraq closely and would take any aggressive moves seriously. "Obviously, we continue to watch that part of the world very closely," State Department spokesman Glyn Davies said in reply to a question about a reported Iraqi troop buildup near Arbil in Kurdish-populated northern Iraq. "And we would take seriously any moves that were seen as aggressive." Davies said he could not describe what the United States had seen in the area without getting into intelligence matters. "But we're watching the area very closely." Earlier in the day, Iraq accused Iran of military aggression and said it reserved the right to retaliate for Tehran's alleged deployment of troops into Kurdish-populated regions of northern Iraq. Foreign Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahaf, in a statement carried by official newspapers, accused Tehran of sending troops to northern Iraq and said Baghdad "preserved the full right to retaliate." "Iran, in its pursuit of such a stupid aggressive policy, would be digging its grave with its own hands, creating a dangerous precedent that will backfire on it," Sahaf said. The Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP) of Massoud Barzani has said that Iran sent troops and military equipment into northern Iraq in support of the guerrillas of its rival, the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK), led by Jalal Talabani. PUK has charged that Baghdad shelled its areas in efforts to back KDP rebels. It said on Wednesday that Baghdad was massing troops near northern Iraq's Kurdish areas, which have been outside Baghdad's control since shortly after the 1991 Gulf War and are protected by U.S., French and British aircraft against possible attacks by Iraqi armed forces. Davies said a new ceasefire between the warring Kurdish factions, which took effect on Wednesday, appeared to be holding. He said U.S. officials would meet representatives of the factions as early as Friday in London to develop "monitoring arrangements to strengthen the ceasefire." The latest truce, worked out by U.S. Assistant Secretary of State Robert Pelletreau, replaced one that took effect last Friday before collapsing with renewed clashes. Northern Iraq has been split into rival zones since fighting broke out between the two groups in 1994. About 3,000 people died before a previous ceasefire last March. A U.S.-led air force contingent has protected the region against possible attack by Baghdad since shortly after the Gulf War.