- Traders and underwriters said Thursday that an AA general obligation rating bestowed on Illinois by Fitch Investors Service Wednesday won't lend much help for state paper in the market. The rating, the first for Illinois by Fitch since the rating agency was recapitalized and reactivated in 1989, was a notch above the AA-minus Standard & Poor's Corp. affirmed for the state Wednesday and higher than the A1 rating Moody's Investors Service confirmed on Thursday. "I don't think most municipal buyers or traders put much emphasis on Fitch," said one trader. "They're the third party at the dance." Another trader agreed, saying that a Moody's upgrade of the state to double-A would "make a big difference." "I don't think you can compare that much between Moody's and Fitch," the trader said. "(Fitch) is not the most important of the two ratings." Traders said Illinois paper has been trading as a low or weak double-A credit, reflective of its split ratings with Standard & Poor's and Moody's. A New York-based underwriter said that at most the higher Fitch rating could help the state by five basis points on a $185 million GO bond issue Illinois has scheduled for competitive sale on Wednesday. Mike Colsch, Illinois deputy budget director, said he expected to receive "slightly more aggressive bids than we've seen on the last few deals" because of the AA rating from Fitch. He added that he felt the Fitch rating "was reflective of Illinois' credit quality." Colsch also noted that the other two rating agencies cited the state's financial improvement in their credit reports, although neither agency chose to upgrade the state's rating at this time. Illinois officials had been seeking upgrades from Standard & Poor's, which downgraded the state's rating two times since 1991 and Moody's, which issued three downgrades during that time period. Still, Standard & Poor's improved its rating outlook for the state to positive from stable. Bob Kurtter, a vice president at Moody's, said the agency believes the state's outlook is positive, as well. While the state is "on the right track" in terms of improving its financial situation, "we would like to see a pattern of sustained improvements, like seeing progress in building reserves." Colsch said while he was disappointed in not getting an upgrade, he felt good about the upbeat credit reports. "These credit reviews and Fitch's double-A rating will provide that message that the state's finances have improved," he said. --Karen Pierog, 312-408-8647