The State Department said on Thursday it was not shrinking from criticising expansion of Jewish settlements in the West Bank for fear of an election-year backlash by American Jews. "I reject that," department spokesman Glyn Davies told a questioner who suggested the Clinton administration might be pulling its punches with Israel to avoid offending Jewish voters ahead of the Nov. 5 presidential election. Davies repeated the policy of successive U.S. administrations that the expansion of West Bank settlements is "unhelpful" and "undercuts" the Arab-Israeli peace process. But he declined for at least the third day in a row to discuss in detail the latest expansion authorised by Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's three-month-old Israeli government. "You know, it's a delicate issue," he said, referring to the peace process. "It's always been our view that when there is something useful to say, we say it. But we're not at a stage right now where it's useful for us to get into reacting to every statement that's made, every development that occurs. "Our views on settlements, our views on the peace process and our views on our role in all this -- they're all well known," he said. Palestinians staged a four-hour general strike on Thursday in the West Bank and Gaza to protest settlement expansion and moves aimed at keeping Jerusalem an undivided Jewish capital. In calling for the strike on Wednesday, Arafat said Netanyahu's policies amounted to a declaration of war on Palestinians. The strike was the first in both the West Bank and Gaza since self-rule began in the area in May 1994. Davies said Arafat and a top Israeli adviser had signalled a desire to resolve the crisis in their relations. He said Dennis Ross, the chief U.S. Middle East peace coordinator, spoke to Arafat several times by telephone on Wednesday during the course of talks he held in Paris with Dore Gold, Netanyahu's top foreign policy adviser. "What he (Ross) reports as a result is a willingness on both sides -- an evident interest in finding a way to resolve their differences," Davies told reporters. He said Ross came away from his conversations with the impression that "Arafat, too, is very much interested in finding a way to end the difficulties that exist between Israel and the Palestinians." Asked if the State Department thought an Arafat-Netanyahu meeting would be productive, Davies said: "As a general matter the United States views face-to-face meetings as the most productive." But he said he would not discuss the substance of advice that the United States was giving to the parties. In a move likely to fuel Palestinian anger, Israel on Thursday disclosed more plans to build additional homes in Jewish settlements in the West Bank.