News that the U.S. economy was going gangbusters in the second quarter may make it harder for Bob Dole to argue that growth has been tepid under President Bill Clinton, some analysts said on Thursday. Dole, the Republican presidential hopeful, contends economic growth is being held back by Clinton's 1993 tax increase. He says the economy needs to be unshackled by a 15 percent tax cut so it can "go for the gold." But the government reported on Thursday that the gross domestic product grew by a surprisingly brisk 4.8 percent from April through June, its highest rate in two years. "I would say it's awfully hard to fight figures like that," said Stephen Hess, a political analyst at the Brookings Institution in Washington. "Dole can argue that this doesn't measure the squeeze on the middle class and that people with two jobs feel insecure ... But people have to have a reason to change (presidents) and if things are going well they don't change," Hess said. Larry Sabato, a political analyst at the University of Virginia, said Dole's economic views would probably get more critical scrutiny because of the latest news. But he said Dole could keep making the go-for-growth argument "for one reason. That is that real wages have not risen. And that's probably the most important economic statistic to most families." Dole campaign aides were quick to point out that their candidate was complaining about the average growth rate during Clinton's term, not just one quarter of growth. "America can do better than what we have. The 2.5 percent growth rate that Clinton has been averaging is anaemic at best," said campaign spokeswoman Christina Martin, adding that it did not compare well with several previous U.S. expansions. Indeed, Clinton's record is not as glittering as the 4.5 percent annual growth from 1982 to 1987, when Ronald Reagan was president, or the 6.2 percent rate from 1961 to 1966, when John Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson were in the White House. "If you look at the long-term historical context, Dole can make the argument that economic growth has slowed down quite a bit," said economist Sung Won Sohn with Norwest Corp. of Minneapolis. "Dole is saying that his programmes will push economic growth right back up to what it used to be ... But I don't think it goes over well with the public that sees a growing economy now and booming sales and more jobs." William Kristol, a Republican strategist and editor of The Weekly Standard, said Dole could change the subject. "Clinton is the first president in a quarter-century not to have a recesssion in his first term, but if Dole can change the topic to taxes, I still think people think they are overtaxed." Dole spokesman Martin said Dole and vice presidential candidate Jack Kemp would keep emphasising their tax-cut proposal to stimulate the economy, partly because growth still was expected to slow down. "The forecast for the future indicates a slowing of the economy. Even the Clinton administration expects the growth rate to slow in the future," she said. The Clinton administration estimated this summer that growth would average 2.6 percent this year and White House economic adviser Laura Tyson was cautious on Thursday when asked by Reuters Financial Television whether she thought faster growth would spill over into the third quarter. "I think it's too early to call the quarter," Tyson said, adding that the "key thing" was that the economy was on a "sound and strong" trajectory. But some Wall Street analysts were re-evaluating earlier growth predictions in light of the latest news. "The idea of really slowing this economy down dramtically is becoming less and less likely," said William Griggs, managing director of the consulting firm Griggs & Santow in New York.