One of organised labour's most bitter opponents launched a drive Thursday to inform union members of their legal right to object to having any part of their union dues used for political purposes. The National Right to Work Legal Defence Foundation, claiming that unions are failing to inform their members of their legal rights, said it has a toll-free telephone number where union members can learn about their rights. "We are beginning a campaign called Operation Liberty Bell to inform union members that they are free not to pay the portion of their dues that is used for political purposes," foundation President Reed Larson told a news conference. "The unions could inform their members of their rights but refuse to do so because they have a vested interest in preserving the compulsory unions dues to pay for political activities," he said. The foundation's campaign, which comes as the labour movement steps up its political activity, is based on the Supreme Court's 1988 Beck decision, which held that workers who have resigned union membership but are covered by contracts that require them to pay dues do not have to pay the portion of their dues that goes to activities unrelated to collective bargaining, contract administration and grievance. In January, the National Labour Relations Board ruled that unions must inform their members that they have a right not to be members and that the Beck decision gives them the right to object to paying for more than "representational" expenses. But Larson, citing a survey by Republican pollster Frank Luntz, said more than three-fourths of union members do not know they have a right not to pay for the part of their dues that is used for political purposes. Besides the toll-free telephone number (888-789-4255), Larson said the Virginia-based foundation will spend between $100,000 and $200,000 to advertise its information campaign. He cited the Luntz poll's finding that 62 percent of union members oppose the 76-union AFL-CIO's $35 million campaign of political advertising and education. But an AFL-CIO poll by Peter D. Hart Research Associates found that 67 percent of union members had a "positive reaction" to the campaign. The unprecedented AFL-CIO campaign, which is over and above the political activities of its affiliated unions, has targeted certain congressional districts with advertising that highlights what it considers to be unfavourable voting records of lawmakers, mostly Republicans, who are seeking re-election. The money is being raised mostly through assessments on AFL-CIO-affiliated unions of $1.85 for each of their 13.1 million members. Dues rates of individual members were not increased as a result. Direct union contributions to candidates' political campaigns come from separate political funds, which are not funded by union dues.