Lawyers for environmentalists and the sugar industry made their arguments before the Florida Supreme Court Thursday in a battle to put a penny-a-pound sugar tax referendum on the November ballot. For the second time in two years, the two sides met over a controversial tax proposal that would raise $750 million over its 25-year life for cleanup of Florida's Everglades. The courtroom was packed with supporters for both sides, and outside the Supreme Court building, proponents of the penny-a-pound tax chanted and waved signs. Environmentalists claim the sugar industry pollutes the Everglades by allowing fertiliser-tainted water to leech from cane fields into surrounding wetlands. Industry officials say the tax would be a death knell for the industry, threatening 16,000 jobs related to sugar production in southern Florida. Attorneys for Save Our Everglades, a Miami-based group backing three constitutional amendments, has garnered nearly 1.5 million signatures to put the propoals on the ballot. Opponents, including the Sugar Growers Cooperative of Florida and U.S. Sugar Corp., said the proposals merely mimic a 1994 amendment that the court said was unconstitutional, and therefore should be struck down again. But SOE said it had made changes to the 1994 proposal and the amendments will now stand up to Supreme Court muster. The court struck down the 1994 referendum on the grounds that it addressed too many issues within a single proposal. State rules demand that a ballot question be limited to a single issue to prevent special interests from making wholesale revisions to the constitution. The new package was divided into three separate amendments. One would establish a 1 cent-a-pound tax on raw sugar grown in southern Florida. The second would establish a trust fund and a third would make polluters pay for damage. In an hour-long hearing before the court Thursday, Chesterfield Smith, representing U.S. Sugar, said that Save Our Everglades was trying to circumvent the legislature by appealing directly to voters for constitutional change. "They should be made to go elsewhere as the constitution intended," Smith said. "But Save Our Everglades wants nothing less than a constitutional revision of the portions that affect the subject they are interested in." SOE attorneys countered that their revised proposal would affect a specific group of people and the money would be used for a specific purpose, two of the criteria required under Florida's procedures for revising the constitution. "The opponents can ask you to ignore what is good policy for the Everglades and they can ask you to ignore what would be good for the taxpayers of Florida," said SOE attorney Jon Mills. "But what they can't ask you to ignore is your own precedent on the constitution to require that they prove substantial impact in multiple areas." The court must only agree that each proposed amendment deals with a single subject and that the ballot summary accurately explains the impact of each proposal. The justices did not indicate when they would rule but the decision must be handed down within the next two months with the election scheduled for Nov. 5.