A slim chance exists the U.S. central bank will ratchet up short-term interest rates before its next policy meeting, but if signs of robust growth continue to mount, so could the odds for an intermeeting hike. "It's not the kind of thing that you think is going to happen as a best case (scenario)," said Robert Brusca, chief economist at The Nikko Securities Co International Inc. "But it's better than the odds of buying a lottery ticket. The odds are below 50 percent, more like 30 percent." Recent economic data have indicated the economy is running on all cylinders, and have caught forecasters flatfooted. Earlier Thursday the Commerce Department revised its estimate of second quarter Gross Domestic Product (GDP) to show a 4.8-percent annualized pace of growth, up from a 4.2-percent rate in its initial projection. The data had Wall Street economists predicting a buoyant third quarter, which they said would benefit from spillover strength in the second period. Economists had forecast an unchanged 4.2-percent growth rate for Thursday's read on second-quarter activity. In addition, new home sales soared in July, consumer confidence is at its highest level in six years, and the public's appetite for big-ticket items has increased. Still, top billing on the economic data hit parade goes to the August employment report due out from the Labor Department next Friday, September 6. "(An inter-meeting move) would require payrolls of over 300,000; a sharp snap back in hours worked -- over 1.0 percent; hourly earnings up 0.3 percent or more, and a negative reaction from the bond market," said Donald Maude, chief U.S. fixed income strategist at Scotia Capital Markets. "Then I feel the Fed would find it necessary to show its hand; policymakers would read all that as a showing of no confidence in the central bank's ability to remain with the inflation curve," Maude added. In a Reuters poll conducted last Friday, 21 experts on average said they expected 238,000 new jobs to have been created in August. Projections ranged from 150,000 to 350,000, with only two firms expecting an increase above 300,000. The unemployment rate, meanwhile, was forecast at 5.3 percent, down a notch from 5.4 percent in July, and average hourly earnings were estimated to have risen by 0.3 percent. The survey will be updated on Friday, and a larger group of experts is expected to participate. Arguing against a between-meetings move, Maude and others highlighted the central bank's desire not to appear to be reacting to a particular report such as the jobs data. They also pointed to the benefits of full-Committee deliberations at policy confabs, the fact that any move would mean a change in the course of monetary policy from easing to tightening, and the touchiness of Committee members ahead of the November presidential election. Still, some analysts suggested an inter-meeting tightening would offer the central bank an "out" from having to raise rates by 50 basis points at the September meeting. "There is a possibility that you could get a Fed tightening by 25 basis points before the September meeting and then another 25 basis points at the meeting," said Nancy Kimmelman, chief economist at Boston-based Technical Data. "The only reason for the Fed to move inter-meeting is to avoid a 50-basis-point tightening at the meeting," she added. Still, Kimmelman agreed the odds of an inter-meeting tightening are low. "That's not the way the Fed works. But if it fits their needs, they'll do it," she remarked. Kimmelman quantified the "Fed's needs" as a willingness on the part of most Committee members to have the overnight bank lending or federal funds rate at 5.75 percent by the end of September. The rate currently stands at 5.25 percent after the Fed last cut rates on January 31 by 25 basis points. "The Fed is willing to be tolerant of strong economic growth so long as inflation is low," Kimmelman said. "But if we continue to see growth well in excess (of the Fed's desired 2.5-percent pace), the Fed's tolerance has limits." -- 212-859-1661