As officials from the Federal Reserve and prominent economists gather here for an annual meeting on monetary policy, a debate is brewing about how aggressive the Fed should be in combating inflation. The debate is more than just academic, and its outcome will affect the economy and the nation's financial markets. Long-term interest rates again have jumped above 7 percent in the bond market as investors worry that surprising strength in the economy will prompt the Fed to raise rates later this year in a bid to ward off inflation. Similar worries helped depress stock prices in June and July. But whether to raise short-term rates in the current environment, when inflation has been subdued despite the economy's strength, is at the heart of the current debate. "The Fed is rather badly divided," said economist James Annable of First National Bank of Chicago. "One of the issues is the goal of zero inflation and the question of how you should get there." The debate comes with inflation hovering below 3 percent for four straight years -- the lowest the economy has sustained since the 1960s. But after a surge in economic growth last spring, some Fed policy-makers fear that if the momentum continues, inflation might pick up. The Commerce Department's report on Thursday revising its estimate of second-quarter economic growth to a 4.8 percent annual rate from the initial estimate of 4.2 percent made in July, is sure to fuel the debate. The rate of growth more than doubled from the 2.0 percent rate in the first quarter and was the strongest since the second quarter of 1994. With that report and other data pointing to continued economic strength, rather than a slowdown in the second half of the year as some economists had envisioned, a fissure has developed at the Fed about the long-term approach to fighting inflation. On the one hand, Annable said, some policy-makers believe the Fed should be trying to push inflation steadily lower until it is effectively wiped out. In the other camp are policy-makers who advocate a more passive approach that would try to hold inflation steady at current moderate levels and then allow it to decline naturally when the inevitable recession hits. Many experts believe that the latter approach, dubbed "opportunistic disinflation" in a Fed paper this summer, has guided the thinking of the majority of policy-makers recently. "I have the impression that the dominant theme in policy is opportunistic disinflation," said Bill Cheney, chief economist at John Hancock Financial Services Inc. "I don't think (most at the Fed) really feel the need to squeeze out further gains on inflation at this stage." Yet even if that view was dominant, it was by no means shared by all Fed policy-makers. The minutes of the July 2-3 meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee showed that at that gathering, Gary Stern, president of the Minneapolis Fed and a voting policy-maker, dissented from the majority decision to hold  rates steady. Stern favoured raising rates based not only on concern that strong growth might incite higher inflation, but also because he felt the Fed should try to take advantage of the opportunity to reduce inflation further. A number of central bank observers believe Stern's views were shared by some other regional Fed bank presidents who are not currently voting members of the policy-making FOMC. Stern and other ardent advocates of eradicating inflation argue that without the distortions produced by price rises, the economy would function much more smoothly. That rationale was the impetus behind a bill introduced in Congress last year by Sen. Connie Mack, a Florida Republican, that would change the Fed's mandate to focus solely on price stability. Currently, the central bank has a dual mandate of fighting inflation and promoting full employment. While the Mack bill has enjoyed considerable support at the Fed, some economists disagree with the premise that wiping out inflation would be good for the economy. A study by scholars at the Brookings Institution, a Washington think tank, argued that zero inflation could cause the unemployment rate to jump a full percentage point or more, permanently. The study has sparked discussion at the Fed, but analysts said it would probably take further evidence to sway most policy-makers. Still, Hancock's Cheney said the research called into question the idea that achieving zero inflation should be "some sort of holy grail." Former Fed Gov. John LaWare, now with the Boston consulting firm Associated Industries, agreed that mild inflation should not be a major concern. "I think inflation at something like 2 percent would be a reasonable kind of policy target," he said. "If we stay in the range of 2 to 3 percent, I don't think it should set off alarm bells at the Federal Open Market Committee."