Stock prices were on the defensive Thursday after strong economic data sparked a fall in the bond market and long-term interest rates rose to the key 7 percent level. At 1 p.m. EDT, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 32.55 points at 5,679.83. In the broader market, declining issues led advances 13-8 on moderate volume of 174 million shares on the New York Stock Exchange. The Nasdaq Composite index was off 2.44 to 1,151.44 and the American Stock Exchange index slipped 0.74 to 562.65. In the bond market, the 30-year Treasury bond fell 12/32, or $3.75 on a $1,000 bond, raising its yield to 7.01 percent from 6.98 percent at Wednesday's close. "The GDP (gross domestic product) revision is really key. Once the data came out, including the jobs which were stronger, bonds fell," said Chris Dickerson, analyst at Global Market Strategists Inc. The Commerce Department reported that the economy boomed ahead more robustly than previously thought during the second quarter, growing at its fastest rate in two years. The nation's GDP expanded at a 4.8 percent annual rate in the three months from April through June instead of the 4.2 percent estimated a month ago. In another report, Washington reported that sales of new homes jumped unexpectedly in July to the briskest rate in five months, driving prices up in a strong housing market. Sales shot up 7.9 percent last month to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 783,000 units -- the strongest since February, when new homes were selling at a rate of 784,000 a year. Dickerson said the thin volume before the Labour Day holiday weekend may have exaggerated the fall in stocks and bonds. "Everyone is on hold -- most have positioned themselves for a week from Friday, the release of unemployment figures, which should be a good indicator," he said. "The bond market is in a good support area and ... the Dow is just above its 5,670 support. So we're looking for the quiet continuation of summerlike trading, and it could possibly drift a little lower," Dickerson said. Without a conviction about where interest rates are headed, the bond market is unlikely to take a solid direction. "The feeling about interest rates seems to change every minute," said Roy Blumberg, chief investment strategist at Josephthal Lyon & Ross. "If the Fed actually tightened a quarter of a point, that would probably convince everyone under the sun that that's all that was going to be done and that would be enough to slow the economy," he said. Among individual stocks, PepsiCo fizzled after its ratings were cut by Goldman Sachs & Co. Shares of the soda giant were off 1-1/8 to 28-7/8 in heavy trading. American Express was unchanged at 45-1/4 after the company said Walter Berman, the chief executive of its travel-related services unit, resigned.