Agri-Nutrition Group Ltd, which was formed to acquire and operate businesses in the food, agriculture and pet industries, said it has an acquisition candidate, restructured its management and will take a charge against earnings to cover some of the costs. In connection with this restructuring, the company said it will incur a one-time after-tax charge of about $150,000 in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1996. Agri-Nutrition said it expects this reorganization to reduce corporate costs by about $600,000 annually.   Agri-Nutrition said it agreed to acquire Anthony Products Co, a private California company which develops pharmaceutical animal health products. Terms of the transaction were not disclosed. The deal is expected to close by November 15, 1996. The proposed acquisition of Anthony Products will allow the company to convert from an acquisition vehicle to an integrated operating company, Agri-Nutrition said. Effective October 31, 1996, W.M. Jones Jr, currently chairman, president and chief executive officer of Agri-Nutrition, will resign as president and chief executive officer but remain chairman.   Bruce Baker, currently deputy chief executive officer, will assume the position of president and chief executive officer. In addition, effective August 23, 1996, George Daignault resigned as chief financial officer of the company, but will continue to be employed by the company on special projects. Robert Elfanbaum, formerly corporate controller, has replaced Daignault as chief financial officer. In other action, Agri-Nutrition said it completed acquisition of worldwide patents, active ingredients inventory, registrations and rights to Bromethalin, a rodenticide, from  Purina Mills Inc for $800,000. The amount may increase based on subsequent shipments of Bromethalin over a five-year period. Earlier today, Agri-Nutrition  reported a loss for its fiscal third quarter ended July 31, 1996 of $9,474 on sales of $8.7 million. Agri-Nutrition, founded in 1993, now operates three companies which produce or market nutritional, health and grooming products for the pet and animal health industry. Chicago newsdesk 312 408 8787