Police with dogs and radar equipment will resume their body hunt in Belgium's child sex scandal on Friday, when three suspects including a senior police detective face formal charges in connection with the case. Belgium has been in shock since chief suspect Marc Dutroux, a convicted multiple child rapist, led police on August 17 to the bodies of eight-year-olds Melissa Russo and Julie Lejeune in the garden of a house he owns at Sars-La-Buissiere. Police have been digging for more bodies since Tuesday in Jumet, a suburb of the southern city of Charleroi, at one of Dutroux's other five houses in the area. "The dogs will be used in the basements to see if there are any bodies there," Gendarmerie spokesman Major Jean-Marie Boudin told reporters as searches ended on Thursday. Excavations in the garden and a shed were interrupted by torrential rain. The Jumet investigation is expected to last at least another day. In all, 11 sites will be explored. Belgian radio said police would travel to Bratislava and Prague to search for missing Belgian children. Dutroux has been named in Bratislava as a suspect in the murder of a young Slovak woman. Interpol's Slovak office has said he was also believed to have planned the kidnapping of at least one other Slovak woman. A spokesman for the Belgian gendarmerie's special disappearances squad said they were likely to contact colleagues in Austria investigating what seemed to be a "child-for-hire" network spread across central Europe. Three men were arrested there on suspicion of sexually abusing children. Belgian police inspector Georges Zicot is expected to be formally charged for car theft, insurance fraud and forgery on Friday. Dutroux is also suspected to have been involved in a car theft ring. The court is also expected to formally charge two others in connection with a car and truck theft ring. Dutroux has been linked with several people arrested for the organised vehicle theft and police are investigating the child sex and theft ring jointly. Zicot's lawyer told Belgian television his client, a specialist in tackling car theft, was innocent and had become the victim of rivalry between police forces -- reinforcing the allegations of police bungling and ineptitude made so far. The Belgian government is due to formally adopt new measures on sex offenders at a cabinet meeting on Friday. These include tougher rules on early release from jail. Dutroux was released 10 years early in 1992 after serving only three years of a 13-year sentence for raping five children. Searches for bodies and clues have focused on teenagers An Marchal and Eefje Lambrecks, who Dutroux, 39, has admitted kidnapping a year ago. Their fate remains unknown. Dutroux's accomplice Bernard Weinstein, who he admitted killing, was found next to Julie and Melissa. Two other girls, Laetitia Delhez, 14, and Sabine Dardenne, 12, were rescued on August 15 from a dungeon in another of Dutroux's houses. Dutroux has said Julie and Melissa, who were abducted in June 1995, starved to death early this year. In their investigations police have so far seized up to 400 videos -- some featuring Dutroux -- children's clothing, magazines and a gun. The affair has grabbed world headlines and prompted wider debate on trade in children, prostitution, paedophilia, and the role of the Internet computer network in spreading the sickness. Belgian media reported on Thursday an unemployed man had been arrested in Flanders for trying to sell 3,000 pornographic photographs via the Internet -- one third were of children. Ten people have so far been arrested including Dutroux's second wife Michelle Martin, who has been charged as an accomplice. Dutroux, a father of three, and associate Michel Lelievre are charged with abduction and illegal imprisonment.