A Sicilian Mafia turncoat was detained on Thursday for allegedly ordering killings, including those of a young widow and a 14-year-old boy, while under a protection programme, state television reported. RAI television said turncoat Giuseppe Ferone, 41, was one of five people held in connection with the shootings of Santa Puglisi, 22, and Salvatore Botta in a cemetery in the Sicilian city of Catania on Tuesday. Puglisi, 22, was shot as she knelt praying by the tomb of her husband, who died last year in a Mafia ambush. Botta, who had accompanied Puglisi to the cemetery, tried to flee from the lone gunman but was caught and killed. Police sources said that Ferone was detained with others at a safe house in Anzio, on the Mediterranean coast south of Rome, and questioned by magistrates for nearly five hours. Police in Catania meanwhile said they had seized an arsenal, including 20 rifles, sub-machine guns, plastic explosives, ammunition and electronic detonators. The haul also included police uniforms, blank driving licences and radios tuned in to police frequencies. The reports fuelled an already heated debate in Italy over whether former Mafia killers can be trusted and should benefit from a generous protection programme that includes reduced sentences, a salary and a new identity. The issue has returned to the headlines after jailed Mafia boss Giovanni Brusca, accused of a string of murders, was reported to be collaborating with police. Magistrates have said they will treat Brusca cautiously, in case his "repentance" proves to be an attempt to mislead investigators and win favourable treatment. Giuseppe Ayala, an undersecretary at the justice ministry, told RAI's TG1 news that the "pentito" (turncoat) programme could not be discredited by one person. "You cannot wipe out an overall contribution that is of exceptional importance just because one criminal, after becoming a "pentito", becomes a criminal again," he said. Enzo Guarnera, a lawyer who has defended turncoats, told Sicilian regional television that if the reports were true then Ferone had clearly deceived a lot of people. RAI said Ferone, a Catania boss who began cooperating with investigators after his son and father died in 1994 in a bloody power struggle between Mafia families, was believed to have ordered the cemetery killings.