The French government stuck to a hard line on illegal immigrants on Thursday, announcing that 88 deported Africans were flown home despite left-wing protests. Two French planes flew home 88 immigrants overnight, 10 of them expelled from the Netherlands, the Interior Ministry said. This took to 25 the number of French deportation flights since conservative Prime Minister Alain Juppe took over 15 months ago. The planes left from an air force base at Evreux, west of Paris, on Wednesday night. Unionists and human rights activists had urged civilian pilots not to fly deportees amid a furore over a police raid on a group of Africans in a church last week. A wide-bodied air force Airbus A-310 flew home 35 Malians and 11 Senegalese. A Boeing 737 of Air Charter, a subsidiary of state-owned Air France, carried 12 Tunisians and 30 Zaireans, including 10 from the Netherlands. The Communist CGT and pro-Socialist CFDT unions called on airlines not to lend their planes to the government and urged airlines and airport staff to demonstrate at Paris' Charles de Gaulle airport on Friday against "flights of shame". "Airline personnel must not be turned into police assistants," they said. The daily Le Monde said France's immigration policy was causing mounting concern in Africa, mainly in Mali and Senegal. The flights took off as police said 11,000 protesters marched through Paris against the expulsion orders in a demonstration twice the size of a similar protest last week. French handling of illegal immigration has taken centre stage since police last week dragged out 300 African protesters, 10 of them on a hunger strike, who had been occupying a Paris church for two months to demand residence permits. Two protesters and two policemen were slightly injured in clashes as some of the demonstrators tried to march on the Saint-Bernard church, in the heavily immigrant Goutte d'Or district, which has become a symbol of the protest. Four of the church protesters were among 57 Africans deported last week on a military aircraft. CIMADE, a group looking after immigrants, said three more were on the latest deportation flights. This was not confirmed by the ministry. Lawyers for the Africans said two Malians flown home on Thursday, Diagui and Mamadou Niakata, had left their wives and children in France, although Interior Minister Jean-Louis Debre had pledged not to break up families. They appealed to the U.N. High Commission for Refugees on behalf of Mauritanian Berke Camara, who is being held pending expulsion and says he fears for his life if he is sent home. Debre, buoyed by surveys saying that a majority of voters backs 1993 laws to curb immigration, has pledged to enforce them while reviewing individual cases on humanitarian grounds. The Africans' spokesman Abubakar Diop called on centrist former junior education minister Francoise Hostalier at the National Assembly and said both agreed dialogue between the government and the protesters should be resumed. The opposition Socialists called the policy on immigration "incoherent and brutal" and said they were drafting proposals to reform the law, including restoring the tradition that anyone born on French soil automatically becomes a French citizen. The 1993 laws say children born in France to foreigners only become French if they request it after turning 16. Debre's adviser on immigration Jean-Claude Barreau called the Socialists' proposals "suicidal demagoguery going against their voters' beliefs". "If someone tries to get in without a ticket and gets caught, it is not abnormal that he be expelled," he wrote in Le Monde.