The French government, facing labour unrest at home and investor worries abroad, pledged on Thursday to push through its economic reforms and meet the requirements for European monetary union from 1999. "France will be there and will meet the necessary requirements (for monetary union). It will do this because that is what corresponds to the interests of all of the French people," President Jacques Chirac said. "A single currency will finally enable Europe to have equal weight with the United States in the great financial debates. It will help us achieve a more stable and fairer monetary order," he told a meeting of French ambassadors from around the world. Prime Minister Alain Juppe, standing firm despite attacks on his economic policies, also reaffirmed France's commitment to join a single European currency. France will "meet the deadline for economic and monetary union within the criteria and the timetable," he said in an earlier speech to the ambassadors. The two leaders returned to Paris this week after weekend talks at Chirac's holiday residence in the French Riviera to find a mood of gloom gripping the country. A spate of opinion polls this week showed the public fearful of social unrest and pessimistic about the future. The franc and French stock and bond markets have been hit by renewed fears of serious labour unrest and doubts over France's ability to meet the Maastricht treaty targets for European economic and monetary union. The franc was trading at 3.4256 per mark late on Thursday, back at levels seen before interest rate cuts last week temporarily lifted the currency from its lows of mid-August. Juppe defended France's battle to squeeze inflation out of the economy and expressed surprise at criticism of that policy. "We have in the past few years eradicated inflation," he said. "I couldn't have been more stunned to see that in the end, some are sorry. As though all over the world people are not trying to eradicate inflation because less inflation means more purchasing power and more justice," he told the ambassadors, gathered at the foreign ministry for an annual conference. Juppe was responding to the latest attack on his economic policies, which came from inside his governing majority. Former finance minister Alain Madelin, in an article in the daily Le Monde, said France was in a period of falling prices and that government policies would aggravate the deflation problem, leading to social disorder and political instability. Madelin, a fervent supporter of free-market economics, was sacked a year ago after a clash with Juppe over the pace of economic reform. Government officials have insisted the government remains committed to planned reforms intended to cut France's public deficit to three percent of gross domestic product, as required for joining economic and monetary union. "I am not a fan of consensus at any price," Labour and Social Affairs Minister Jacques Barrot said, defending the government's plans. "It's not now that France is making choices for the future that we should give in to discouragement, doubt, and, for some, a protest that can only be sterile," he said in an interview to be published Saturday in weekly magazine Valeurs Actuel.