Thousands of farmers blockaded roads across France on Thursday in a protest aimed at barring imports of beef from outside the European Union because of low prices caused by the mad cow crisis. The show of force unrolled as a group of farmers who have been leading a small herd of cattle in a protest march around the country neared central Paris, where they have been invited to confer on Friday with President Jacques Chirac. Farmers had threatened an "incendiary" end to the summer holidays and the blockade was the first in a wave of social unrest expected to target the austerity-minded centre-right government in coming weeks. The FNSEA farmers' union, which mobilised demonstrators by mobile phone and fax in secrecy, said about 15,000 farmers erected blockades on main roads and at motorway toll gates in many areas to carry out spot checks on lorries. The main quarry was trucks carrying imports from Britain or from outside the EU -- especially cheap imports from eastern Europe, which breeders say have helped force beef prices down by a third in recent months after the mad cow crisis. A union spokesman said more than 2,000 lorries were searched and a dozen had cargoes that seemed to violate EU beef labelling and import laws. In a statement, unions demanded "the suspension of imports of live animals and beef from third countries, given the exceptional crisis faced by the EU." "There will be more union operations in the next few days if the calls for help are not heard," the FNSEA and CNJA unions said, demanding urgent compensation. Agriculture Minister Philippe Vasseur wrote to EU Farm Commissioner Franz Fischler asking for new measures to ensure that imports of non-EU cows for fattening within the 15-nation bloc and of non-EU beef did not harm the EU market. "The beef market needs actions on all fronts to revive hopes of a rise in prices and consumption," he said in a statement. He also said the EU should ensure beef imported from outside the EU beef was subject to health controls as strict as EU rules. But while Vasseur acknowledged the breeders' "distress and disarray", a ministry official said that France did not favour banning non-EU beef. On the Franco-Belgian border, one Dutch driver who resisted farmers' orders to have his load searched had the tyres of his lorry punctured. His cargo was handed over to local customs officials. In the Lozere region, farmers who stopped a truck found frozen meat among more than 500 kg (1,100 lb) of frozen fish. The blockades, dismantled during the morning, coincided with surprise protests in a host of towns on the eve of a meeting of an EU committee in charge of managing the beef crisis. In Laval, farmers unloaded veal in the streets. Protesters occupied the offices of the prefecture (local government authority) in the Creuse region. Near Grenoble, 100 farmers occupied a slaughterhouse at Hieres sur Amby and found a truck carrying carcasses of unspecified origin. In southern Rodez, some 600 breeders entered supermarkets to check the origin of meat. The Vienne breeders, who have been marching their cows to Paris, will walk into the courtyard of the presidential Elysee palace on Friday. President Chirac, who started out as an agriculture minister defending farmers' interests in the EU, has agreed to meet them. European beef sales plunged after Britain announced the discovery of a likely link between bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), or mad cow disease, and its fatal human equivalent Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD).