New technology and innovative techniques could boost recoverable reserves on the Norwegian continental shelf (NCS) by more than four billion barrels, according to plans proposed by Den Norske Stats Oljeselskap ASA (Statoil). Studies indicate an extra 700 million cubic metres, or 4.4 billion barrels, of crude could be drained from existing and new small prospects between 1997 and 2016, said Adolfo Henriquez, Statoil chief engineer for reservoir engineering.   "The target is very ambitious. It's an amount of oil equivalent to the size of another Statfjord field," Henriquez told Reuters. "But otherwise the current prognosis is that in the next six to seven years Norwegian production will be half of today's 175 million cubic metres per year." Statoil has been working on a full study of the NCS for about 18 months. It will put its proposals for the work to operators and partners in the fields over the next month.   Crude from nearly 40 fields will contribute to the extra flow, but more than 60 percent of the additional volumes will come from just six fields -- Statfjord, Gullfaks, Heidrun, Aasgard, Snorre and Ekofisk. Statfjord would produce 60 million cubic metres of the extra oil, increasing its recovery rate from today's 62.5 percent to 68 percent. The average recovery rate on the NCS is 41 percent, the world average recovery rate is between 35 and 45 percent. The Gullfaks development is projected to contribute 50 million cubic metres to the extra flow.   About 24 percent of the extra Statfjord oil will be raised using new injection techniques based on gas. Advance well methods such as branching wells and "intellegent" wells, which use fibre technology to control the flow from the reservoir to the wells, will account for 31 percent of the rise and the remainder will come from innovative techniques such as four dimensional seismic studies. Henriquez said the technological advances were driven by a better understanding of the geology of reservoirs.   "The dual purpose wells for gas injection mean that we can now inject gas and at the same time produce from another part of the well. That was science fiction five years ago," he said. kenriquez said Statoil's proposals would mean sustaining Norway's high output level in the most efficient and cost-effective method. If operators relied on new discoveries from the 15th licencing round, fresh reserves would not go into production until the next century, he said. But the proposed work is time critical.   "This needs to be done now. If we leave it until 2006 the economic threshold of for the older operating platforms will have passed and we will have to plan to close them down," Henriquez said.