German electronics giant Siemens on Thursday angrily rejected German television claims that it botched construction at a nuclear plant which activitists want shut down for health reasons. Siemens denied that its Kraftwerksunion (KWU) unit had improperly welded together three parts of a reactor pressure vessel which were installed in the controversial Kruemmel nuclear plant in 1978. A Siemens spokesman told Reuters that a "technically unavoidable and generally accepted re-alignment, totalling only several millimetres" was made when the three pieces, which were too large to transport in one section, arrived at the plant. Siemens was responding in advance to the planned broadcast of a television news programme, scheduled to be aired at 1900 GMT, which alleges the industrial giant bungled the job. The "Monitor" programme says Siemens used "violent" hydraulic pressure to re-align the three parts and that the extra pressure could have led to the reactor pressure vessel bursting. Monitor released a summary of the programme contents ahead of its broadcast. Siemens spokesman Mark Derbacher said: "The vessel sections are 23 metres long, 20 metres wide and 17 centimetres thick, weighing around 800 tonnes. That is why they are delivered in three sections," needing to be welded together on site. Derbacher added the process conformed to required safety standards and that there could be no allegations of negligent behaviour on Siemens' part. He cited a 1988 court ruling confirming that KWU's work had complied with safety rules. Activists have already filed court papers seeking to shut down Kruemmel, alleging that it has leaked radio-active emissions leading to a high incidence of cancer around the plant in the northern state of Schleswig-Holstein. The television programme adds another twist to a brewing controversy surrounding the ageing nuclear reactor. On Wednesday, two German physicians filed a civil action to close the Kruemmel plant alleging it was directly responsible for a high incidence of leukaemia among children, said to be up to 70 times higher than elsewhere in Germany. The plant's operator, Hamburg Elektrizitaets-Werke, remains convinced that there is no link between the operation of the power plant and leukaemia among children in the area.