The French franc faces further pressure ahead of the conservative government's austerity budget next month but a repeat of last autumn's speculative assault is unlikely, analysts said on Thursday. Market worries about labour unrest over the budget were overdone, they said, predicting unions could not rally the same opposition to the government's deficit-fighting plans as they did last year when rail workers paralysed France for 24 days. "It's logical to expect there will be some labour problems but it's unrealistic to expect it will be as bad as last year," said UBS economist Darren Williams. The franc was quoted at 3.4255 per mark late on Thursday, well above a five-month low touched earlier of 3.4296. The currency was lifted by intervention by the Bank of France early in the day after flirting with the 3.4305 francs per mark floor of its old Exchange Rate Mechanism band, a key psychological level, traders said. Prime Minister Alain Juppe has said he will present the main outlines of the 1997 budget, social security financing plans and tax reform programme around the middle of next month. Loud union protests over the budget, which aims to hold spending at 1996 levels to reduce the deficit and meet conditions for a single currency, has prompted concern in some market circles that the government might be driven off course. But analysts said they did not believe the unit would suffer the same nail-biting ride it did last October when it plunged through the 3.50 per mark level over worries about France's ability to meet European monetary union targets. So far, the unions have contented themselves with sabre rattling. The teachers' unions have vowed strikes but other labour federations have only promised protest marches. "I don't think if the teachers go on strike it disrupts the economy like as much as if the train drivers go on the strike," Paribas economist Paul Mortimer-Lee told Reuters Financial Television. "We're not in the same ball game this year as last year." The government bought off the striking state-owned SNCF rail workers late last year with big concessions and they have been noticeably silent in the runup to the budget. Many analysts saw the franc trading in a range of 3.4200-3.4500 per mark, possibly weakening to 3.4700 during the lead-up to the budget. The currency's weakness could carry through to October, but they did not see it extending beyond then and some saw it retracing to 3.4000 by year end. One economist said the currency flows were relatively light and the Bank of France should be able to support the franc "with fairly small-scale intervention". If there was a "sustantial" attack on the franc, speculators would likely have to take on both the Bank of France and the German Bundesbank, which does not want to see Germany's struggling economy undermined by a stronger mark, Mortimer-Lee said. "We will see substantial foreign exchange rate intervention by the Bank of France and by the Buba," he said. Crucial to the markets will be whether the budget of France and other EU nations are credible enough in the current slow growth environment to achieve monetary union. "If investors are concerned about whether EMU will happen, there are better targets than the franc to attack like the traditional high yielding currencies, the Spanish peseta and the Italian currency," Smith Barney economist Steven Englander said. "When we get past the next month or so, the franc should turn out to be quite stable in contrast to the traditional high yielders that have rebounded a lot this year."