Croatian Serbs in liberated areas continue to be targets of violence and looting, with police either unable or unwilling to stop abuses, a U.N. report said on Thursday. Crimes range from looting property -- everything from the kitchen sink to sheep -- to more serious incidents such as beatings and explosives that killed at least two people and injured others, the report by Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali said. The report, based on investigations by special envoy Elizabeth Rehn, may be particularly significant because of Croatia's application for admission to the Council of Europe, whose main focus is human rights. Croatia's candidacy has been approved provisionally but a final decision was postponed, depending on improvement of conditions for the return of Serb refugees, protecting minorities and cooperating with the U.N. war crimes tribunal. "A prevailing climate of lawlessness causing great fear among local residents persists" in the former Serb-held areas, the report said. "Arrests of looters have been rare. It is evident that the government still has not taken adequate measures to provide an effective police presence in the region and looting and intimidation remain widespread." Boutros-Ghali also pointed to a "new disturbing development" in a spate of attacks and threats against local and international human rights and relief groups, including an explosive device near the home of the president of the Croatian Helsinki Committee and a fire at the offices of a Croatian group working with Oxfam. He said Croatia was cooperating with the Hague-based U.N. war crimes tribunal in its investigations but had not arrested any of the Croatians indicted by the tribunal. On refugees, the report said the government had authorised the return of more than 9,000 Croatian Serbs but few have come back to their homes. Another 10,000 have applied to return home but their applications were being processed slowly. Many of the returnees have been unable to get back into their homes, which are occupied by Croat refugees. "While these persons have a legitimate right to a decent home, the manner in which the Croatian government has been approaching this question is having a profound impact on the region's ethnic balance, transforming the population from being predominantly Serb to one that is largely Croat."