French 10-year bond futures settled higher on Thursday but off their best levels after U.S. data showing the American economy was stronger than expected. "Everyone was hoping for an upturn in the U.S. bond market, but the figures didn't deliver," said one trader. He said investors would be seeking further guidance from Friday's crop of U.S. data that includes personal spending and the Chicago Purchasing Managers Index. But September PIBOR erased its losses to end in positive terrain after the franc came back from a five-month low against the mark following reported intervention by the Bank of France.   The franc was trading at 3.4257/62 per mark in late afternoon after hitting a low of 3.4296 early Thursday. Traders said the Bank of France intervened to support the unit when it neared its old European Rate Mechanism floor of 3.4305, buying francs for marks at 3.4295. Some analysts saw the unit coming under further pressure on Friday when French unemployment data is due but others said the bad news was already in the market. The figures to be released at 0645 GMT are expected to show a rise in the raw total of unemployed although the percentage of jobless is forecast to remain unchanged at 12.5 percent.   Currency analysts said the franc would probably remain under pressure in the lead-up to the government's austerity budget in mid-September but would not face a repeat of last autumn's speculative assault. They said worry about union unrest over the budget was overdone and predicted that labour would not muster the same opposition to the government's spending cut plans as it did late last year when railway workers paralysed France. They believed it would continue to trade in the 3.4200/3.4500 per mark range in the leadup to the French budget due in mid-September and possibly weaken further.   But they did not believe the pressure on the franc would last beyond October and some saw it back around 3.4000 per mark by year end. "We may see 3.45 on mark-Paris but we are not of the school that is talking 3.55 again," said Chase economist Steve Barrow. Helping the franc also on Thursday was a better showing by the dollar on the back of the strong U.S. data that included revised second quarter GDP figures showing a rise of 4.8 percent against the 4.2 percent initial release. -- Paris Newsroom +33 1 4421 5452