India said on Thursday it was planning new measures to boost foreign direct investment and speed up economic reforms, but diplomats and industry officials said it had set itself an uphill task. "We believe that the nation needs and has the capacity to absorb at least $10 billion a year as foreign direct investment," Industry Minister Murasoli Maran told a conference on the prospects for foreign direct investment (FDI) in India. FDI inflow was some $2 billion in 1995/96 (April-March). Maran said the federal government would soon increase the number of high priority areas in which joint ventures between Indian firms and foreign companies are automatically approved by the central bank. "I would say that the government is actively considering to include more high priority industries in this automatic route," Maran said. "The expanded list will be announced very shortly." Currently, joint ventures with 51 percent foreign equity participation in any of 35 priority sectors get automatic approval by the Reserve Bank of India, Maran said. Poor infrastructure and rampant red-tape were among the factors that deterred many foreign investors from putting their money in India, other speakers at the conference said. "Ten billion dollars is a tough target," said Jonathan Bensky, the commercial counsellor at the U.S. Embassy. "But it's good for the reach to exceed the grasp." Government delays in approving projects sometimes forced American firms to drop them, Bensky said. Protests in India that blocked work on a 2,450 MW power plant by U.S. energy giant Enron for almost a year and forced Kentucky Fried Chicken to suspend operations could discourage many potential U.S. investors, Bensky said. "You may not appreciate how widely news of Enron and Kentucky Fried Chicken has spread in the U.S.," he said. "Many companies will look at that and take it as symbolic of India's attitude to foreign investment. Whether it is true or not, reality is in the eye of the beholder." Japanese Ambassador Sakutaro Tanino also said red tape and infrastructure deficiencies were discouraging investors. "The Indian government's red tape is cumbersome, time consuming and complicated," Tanino said. "There is serious need to take immediate steps to expand and upgrade infrastructure facilities like power generation and distribution, telecommunications, roads and ports," he added. But Indian FDI levels exceed those in China at roughly the same stage in the reform process, said Anthony Smith, charge d'affaires at the European Commission delegation. "Actual FDI in India in the first five years of reforms exceeds the level of FDI in China in the corresponding period, a fact usually overlooked when comparing the performance of the two Asian giants in this field," Smith said. The European Union's share of FDI in India was 16.85 percent in 1994/95 (April-March), Smith said, as compared to 14.85 percent for the U.S., and 4.95 percent for Japan.