Britain reassured India on Thursday that New Delhi would not face punitive sanctions if it persisted in opposing a global nuclear test ban treaty, but said the pact could unravel without universal support. Visiting British Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind said India could not be threatened into signing the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT). Last week New Delhi singlehandedly blocked the accord from being adopted at talks in Geneva. "Clearly India has very serious reservations and concerns," Rifkind told a news conference after meeting Indian Foreign Minister I.K. Gujral on the first day of a two-day visit. Later he was to see Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda. New Delhi cited a provision which would require the three nuclear "threshold" states -- India, Israel and Pakistan -- to sign the treaty before it could become international law. India says the clause would impinge on its sovereignty. India also objected to a provision which would allow countries to take unspecified measures to build support for the CTBT if it had not taken effect within three years. New Delhi fears the measures could end up being economic sanctions. Despite India's objections in Geneva, the treaty's backers plan to send the pact to the United Nations General Assembly when it convenes next month. Asked if coercive measures were needed to persuade India to sign the CTBT, Rifkind told Reuters: "There is no way India can be forced to agree to a treaty it does not wish to support, nor is there any way any country can be forced. So that has not been contemplated." The foreign secretary said the CTBT could crumble without universal support. "If any country is unable to sign, then there is always a risk that there will always be others coming to the same conclusion and the whole matter unravelling," he said. Rifkind did not see any fallout with India due to divisions over the CTBT, which Britain and the four other nuclear powers -- China, France, Russia and the United States -- support. "I believe that our bilateral relations with India will not be affected by whatever decision India might reach," he said, claiming ties between the two nations had never been better. But the visiting minister said Britain wanted India to permit official international observers to monitor local polls next month in troubled Kashmir. On Wednesday, a spokesman for the government of Jammu and Kashmir state said foreign individuals would be allowed to observe assembly elections which start on September 7, but teams of official observers would be barred. "We would prefer to see official international observers but that is not currently on offer," Rifkind told Reuters. They will be the first local elections in the state since a separatist revolt erupted in 1990. The last poll was in 1987. Rifkind said Britain had no reliable evidence concerning the whereabouts or fate of four Westerners, including two Britons, taken hostage in Kashmir last year by separatist militants. He urged Pakistan and India to strengthen trade ties as a means of enhancing regional security. Rifkind said that before leaving for Colombo on Friday, he would sign a 75 million sterling ($120 million) agreement to support power sector reform in the eastern state of Orissa, and a 45 million sterling ($72 million) project for primary education in Andhra Pradesh state. Rifkind came to India from Pakistan. After Sri Lanka he is scheduled to visit Japan and Mongolia.