A tunnel linking Kabul with northern Afghanistan, closed for two years, was reopened to traffic on Thursday under an agreement between the government and an opposition militia, witnesses said. In Kabul, rockets fired by the rebel Islamic Taleban militia killed two people and wounded three, government-run radio said. The witnesses said dozens of trucks began moving through the Salang tunnel, about 80 km (50 miles) north of Kabul, from both directions after the highway reopened. The 1.7-mile (2.7 km) Soviet-built tunnel opened in 1964, which passes through the Hindu Kush mountains at an altitude of 3,363 metres (11,030 ft), was the main supply route for Soviet troops when they occupied Afghanistan in the 1980s. It had been closed since 1994 when northern militia leader General Abdul Rashid Dostum rebelled against the Kabul government. Kabul announced on August 20 that the northern highway would be reopened to traffic under an agreement it had reached with the opposition Supreme Coordination Council alliance led by Dostum's Jumbish-i-Milli movement. Witnesses said wrecked tanks and vehicles littered both sides of the heavily-mined road. Mines had been removed from the road itself, but experts of the Halo Trust mine clearance agency said it would take a week to clear the roadsides. Trust experts said 70,000 to 80,000 people were waiting on the northern side of the front line to move south towards Kabul. Thousands of people fled to the northern city of Mazar-i-Sharif to escape factional fighting in the Afghan capital, and were unable to return home. Afghan Deputy Prime Minister Qotbuddin Hilal officiated at the tunnel reopening ceremony, which was delayed by several hours while the two sides argued about a mutual release of prisoners. They eventually agreed that the captives would be freed in the next two or three days. The tunnel had been closed since January 1, 1994 when Dostum linked up with Gulbuddin Hekmatyar's Hezb-i-Islami party in an abortive attempt to seize Kabul and oust President Burhanuddin Rabbani. Hekmatyar, who was prime minister at the time, ended his revolt and rejoined the Kabul government as premier in June. The government has been trying hard to persuade other opposition factions to follow Hekmatyar's example, but the Taleban militia has refused to hold any peace talks until Rabbani and forces loyal to him quit the Afghan capital.