Pakistan expects a bumper cotton crop of more than 10 million 375-lb bales in 1996/97 (July-June) despite recent floods, Commerce Minister Ahmed Mukhtar said on Thursday. The new crop season officially begins on Sunday. Mukhtar told Reuters no precise estimate of the new harvest was available, but said this month's floods in parts of the central province of Punjab had not affected the crop. But he said that if rains continued in catchment areas there was a possibility of heavy floods in the Punjab cotton belt. "Later parts of September are usually dangerous," he added. Officials say rice and sugarcane crops have been affected by the floods but the extent of the damage is not yet clear. Agriculture Minister Nawab Yousaf Talpur said the government had formed a committee of experts, textile mill representatives and growers to determine the size of the new cotton crop. "Our official target is 10 million bales but we might exceed that provided floods do not damage the crop," he told Reuters on Thursday. "The crop so far seems better than last year." Apart from flood danger, he said concern focused on very high humidity at about 87 percent, which heightens the risk of pest attack, and farmers were being urged to spray pesticide. Chaudhry Abdus Salam of the Cotton Research Institute in Multan said on Sunday that 90 percent of the Multan area had low infestation of leaf curl virus but most cotton varieties were resisting the attack. "There is no harm to the crop from rains and floods so far," said Barkat Ali Soomro, vice-president of the government's central cotton committee. "We expect a crop of between 10.5 and 11 million bales." The Karachi Cotton Association (KCA) says the crop may reach 11 million bales, compared to 9.95 million in 1995/96. KCA chairman Maqbool Sadiq said, "The cotton crop is good and therefore cotton rates (for NIAB-78) have gradually fallen to 2,300 rupees per maund (37.32 kg) today from about 2,600 about two weeks ago." He said prices would drop to 2,000 rupees by mid-September and 1,900 in October if exports remain unrestricted. "Prices will fall as textile mills don't have money to buy cotton," he added. Aijazuddin Ghauri, secretary of the Pakistan Cotton Ginners Association, said the harvest would certainly be as big as last year's and first reports from ginneries indicated a good crop. "Our guess is between 10.5 and 11 million bales barring major climatic changes in September," said Akbarali Hashwani, an exporter and former KCA chairman.