Britain reassured India on Thursday that New Delhi would not face punitive sanctions if it persisted in opposing a global nuclear test ban treaty. But British Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind said the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) needed universal support or the cause of nuclear disarmament could be set back. "I don't see that as remotely relevant to the question that we are addressing," the visiting foreign minister told reporters when asked if Britain favoured joining in punishing India for its opposition to the pact. India last week singlehandedly blocked adoption of the CTBT at talks in Geneva. New Delhi cited a provision it said could permit nations supporting the treaty to take eventual coercive measures against any country opposing the pact. Despite India's objections, the treaty's backers plan to send the treaty to the United Nations General Assembly when it convenes next month. Rifkind, who met Indian Foreign Minister I.K. Gujral on Thursday morning and was set to see Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda later in the day, said Britain respected India's right to reach its own conclusion over the CTBT. "There is no way India can be forced to agree to a treaty it does not wish to support, nor is there any way any country can be forced. So that has not been contemplated," Rifkind told Reuters after a news conference. Rifkind said he did not see any fallout in bilateral relations with India due to the disagreement between the two countries over the CTBT, which Britain supports. "I believe that our bilateral relations with India will not be affected by whatever decision India might reach in these matters," Rifkind said. The foreign secretary said universal agreement over the CTBT was close. "If any country is unable to sign, then there is always a risk that there will always be others coming to the same conclusion and the whole matter unravelling," he said. The visiting minister said Britain wanted India to permit official international observers to monitor local polls next month in Kashmir, but New Delhi had refused to admit any. "We would prefer to see official international observers but that is not currently on offer," Rifkind told Reuters. On Wednesday, a spokesman for the government of Jammu and Kashmir state said foreign individuals would be allowed to observe assembly elections which start on September 7, but teams of official observers would be barred. "We would certainly like to see observers present," Rifkind said, adding that Britain would be watching the assembly polls, the state's first since a separatist revolt erupted in 1990, with interest to see if they were free and fair. "The Indian government have said at the moment that they are not contemplating international observers but that any person who wishes to go to Jammu and Kashmir and see the elections can do so on their own authority," Rifkind said. "So there will be plenty of people from the international community, I suspect, present on the day."