Hindustan Lever Ltd (HLL) on Thursday reported strong first half 1996 results ahead of a planned merger with another Unilever subsidiary -- which would make it India's largest food and consumer products company. Analysts said the merger is expected by December. "Forty percent growth in profit is very good," said Thyagesh Baba, analyst at Peregrine Capital in Bombay. HLL, Unilever's largest Indian subsidiary, announced a 37 percent jump in net sales to 22.07 billion rupees for the six months ended June 30, 1996. Profit after taxation, before extraordinary items, rose 40.1 percent to 1.48 billion rupees. Net profit was lower at 1.21 billion rupees because of the extraordinary items. The board announced a higher interim dividend at 6.0 rupees per share compared to 5.0 rupees in the year-ago period. Earlier this year, shareholders of HLL and Brooke Bond Lipton India Ltd agreed to merge the two firms. HLL plans to issue nine HLL shares for every 20 Brooke Bond shares. But analysts said India's largest corporate merger could be delayed because HLL was awaiting a review of a recent tax imposed by the government of Maharashtra state which would make the merger very costly. The government doubled the tax payable to 10 percent of the value of new shares issued by a company following a merger. "This amounts to penalising mergers," said Sandeep Bhatia, analyst at UBS Research who tracks Unilever Group firms. HLL officials discussed the issue with the state finance minister earlier this month and analysts expect HLL and Brooke Bond to present a combined balance sheet in December 1996. "Brooke Bond should be looked upon as a route to enter HLL eventually," said Peregrine's Baba. "On its own, it (Brooke Bond share) is either a hold or a sell," he said. Baba said the merged entity will have the highest market capitalisation in the benchmark 30-share index of the Bombay Stock Exchange. He said the Unilever Group aimed at achieving distribution synergy through the proposed merger. "The merged entity will boast gross sales of 58.3 billion rupees, making it the third largest private sector company behind Reliance Industries and Tata Iron and Steel Co," said R. Ravi of Jardine Fleming Broking. "The group's growth opportunities lie with Brooke Bond while the money to finance them is with HLL," Ravi said. "HLL's hidden value lies in its brands and vast retail network." -- Bombay newsroom +91-22-265 9000