Bangladesh will soon enact legislation enabling foreigners to establish export processing zones in the country, Commerce and Industry Minister Tofael Ahmed said on Thursday. "The government of Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina is going to approve a law allowing separate export processing zones," Ahmed told a seminar on the promotion of private sector development. "The country's laws will be simplified to attract foreign investment." The law, which would spur industrial growth and generate employment, was expected to be approved at a cabinet meeting later on Thursday and placed before parliament for final approval, Ahmed said. "Foreign investors are showing keen interest in setting up companies in Bangladesh. We are making some bold decisions. My government considers the private sector as the engine of growth," the minister said. He said South Korea had already approched Bangladesh on setting up an export processing zone. Bangladesh already has two export processing zones. One, in the port city of Chittagong, has more than 60 companies, including about 40 wholly foreign-owned units. The second zone in Dhaka has nearly 20 companies, most of them foreign-owned, and is being expanded by acquiring more land, Ahmed said. He said the government would also pursue reforms so as to allow private investment in the energy sector. He did not provide further details or give a timetable for the proposed reforms, but several foreign companies, including U.S. oil firm Unocal Corporation and Canadian Geopetrol International (1993) Ltd have expressed interest in investing in the power sector. He praised German initiatives in promoting private sector projects in Bangladesh. Germany's ambassador in Dhaka, Bruno Weber, told the seminar that his country was providing $21 million for the promotion of the country's private sector. The programme aims to train 600 private sector entrepreneurs over a period of three years. "We are convinced that Bangladesh will make progress with this programme," Weber said. "We are optimistic the project will help the country's economy pick up." Hasina, who took over as prime minister two months ago, has said the country's investment rate must be raised to 25 percent of gross domestic product from 16 percent to support the expected growth of the economy. "The policies on foreign investment will focus on export-oriented industries ... and maintaining annual export growth at 20 percent," she said. But she noted that annual foreign private investment had remained at less than $30 million over the past five years.