India must speed up financial sector reforms in order to efficiently allocate the investment required to boost economic growth and strengthen implementation of fiscal and monetary policy, the World Bank has said. The Bank, in an annual report on the Indian economy, warned, however, that the financial sector could be weakened if fiscal policy was not strengthened hand-in-hand with reforms. India launched financial sector reforms in 1991, as part of a programme of wide-ranging free-market reform, which dismantled years of socialist-style policies. "Further liberalisation in the presence of large public sector borrowings and consequently high interest rates could weaken the financial system," the World Bank said. Once the fiscal deficit was reduced, the World Bank said, India's central bank should reduce its intervention in the placement of government debts to establish a strong money market and support the corporate debt market. The World Bank said the goverment should further re-structure the public sector banks by reducing its equity holding to less than 50 percent, thus promoting improved bank management and profitability. The controls on insurance companies portfolios also need to be phased out, the World Bank said. The government will need to continue strengthening prudential regulations, supervision, capital market infrastructure and legal and regulatory framework, it said. India's new corporate tax would plug some loopholes, but it cannot rectify evasion problems associated with transfer pricing and under-reporting profits, the World Bank said. India, in its annual budget for fiscal 1996/97 (April-March), introduced a compulsory Minimum Alternate Tax (MAT) on corporate houses which presently avoid paying tax by making substantial investments in new projects. The World Bank said India does not tax profits from export sales, accelerated depreciation and fringe benefits. This implied that, in fiscal 1995/96, a nominal tax rate of 46 percent (including surcharge of 15 percent) was effectively less than 20 percent, the Bank said. It stressed that the efficiency of corporate income taxation must be increased. -- New Delhi newsroom +91-11-310-2024