Wall Street stocks were lower at midday Thursday after strong economic data released this morning renewed fears about a possible interest rate hike and sent bonds tumbling. The Dow Industrials were off 37 points to 5676 after bottoming at 5664. The Nasdaq Composite fell three to 1151. The benchmark 30-year bond was down nearly half a point. Stocks followed bonds lower after the release of surprisingly strong revised U.S. gross domestic product and jobs reports.   U.S. second-quarter GDP was revised up to 4.8 percent. Analysts had expected no change to the figure, which had been previously estimated at 4.2 percent. The U.S. help-wanted advertising index fell to 83 in July. Still another factor was new home sales for July, which rose to the strongest level since February. "The GDP revision is really key. Once the data came out ... bonds fell," said Chris Dickerson, analyst at Global Market Strategists Inc.   Dickerson said thin volume exaggerated the fall in stocks and bonds. "Everyone is on hold -- most have positioned themselves for a week from Friday, the release of unemployment figures, which should be a good indicator," he said. "The bond market is in a good support area and ... the Dow is just above its 5670 support. So we're looking for the quiet continuation of summerlike trading, and it could possibly drift a little lower," Dickerson said. Without more consistent data about the economy, analysts say they cannot form a consensus about the direction of the bond market.   "The feeling about interest rates seems to change every minute," said Roy Blumberg, chief investment strategist at Josephthal Lyon & Ross. "If the Fed actually tightened a quarter of a point, that would probably convince everyone under the sun that that's all that was going to be done and that would be enough to slow the economy," he said. "The problem is, I dont think they're going to be rewarded with that information. It's not slowing as fast as I thought, but it's slowing enough to probably keep the Fed from tightening monetary policy soon. So the bond market will probably be locked in a trading range for a while," he said.   PepsiCo shares fell after the company's ratings were cut by Goldman Sachs & Co. Shares were off 1-1/8 to 28-7/8 in heavy trading. American Express Co shares were unchanged at 45-1/4 after the company said Walter Berman, the chief executive of its travel-related services unit, resigned. Shares of Housecall Medical rebounded after hitting a new low of 5. The company said it expected a net loss for the fiscal fourth quarter and had its rating downgraded by Morgan Stanley. The shares were off 7-1/2 to 7 at midday.