Colombia's energy minister on Thursday downplayed the possibility that nationalization of the country's oil and natural gas industry could become a bargaining chip in peace talks with leftist rebels. Rodrigo Villamizar, minister of energy and mines, said government officials agreed to the talks to keep lines of communications open with the guerrillas, but will not allow investments by foreign oil companies to be nationalized. "That will not be the ultimate outcome," he said of the threat that foreign investments would be seized.   "As long as there are illicit uses of the land, we will not compromise," with the rebels, he said after a speech to oil and gas company executives in Houston. Colombia's interior minister on Tuesday said the government was open to talks with leftist rebels on demands to nationalize the oil industry as part of negotiations to end a long-running campaign of kidnappings and attacks on oil and coal projects. Leaders of the powerful oil workers union, long opposed to foreign investment in the industry, proposed similar talks at a forum on ending violence in Colombia.   Several international oil companies operate in Colombia, including Amoco Corp. and British Petroleum Plc, a partner in the massive Cusiana and Cupiagua oil fields. Villamizar acknowledged that foreign companies routinely pay the government for military protection of oil fields and pipelines, frequent targets of sabotage by the rebel groups. "The rule has been that it has been at the request of the companies, that they like to reinforce the security of those specific areas. Of course there has been, there are, and there will be private arrangements with the government," he said.   Villamizar was in Houston courting U.S. companies interested in investing in Colombia's prolific oil and natural gas fields and its expanding electric and gas systems. While the central government increases spending on social programs, an estimated $22 billion in private investment will be sought to exploit oil and natural gas reserves and build new refineries and pipelines, he said.   The government by early next year plans to sell off seven state-owned electric generating plants and has sought bids on six natural gas projects. Colombia also is seeking to accelerate drilling to tap an estimated 15 billion barrels of unproven crude oil reserves. Villamizar also said he is studying a proposal to reduce state-owned Ecopetrol's traditional 50 percent stake in smaller fields to encourage exploration in those plays. "I think the 50-50 (arrangement), as you say, is not working, it hasn't worked. We're going to have to change it," he said.   Diplomatic relations between the U.S. and Colombia have grown increasingly strained since March 1, when Washington removed Colombia from a list of countries cooperating with U.S. efforts to fight drug trafficking.