Last-minute lobbying was underway Thursday in California's state Legislature before crucial votes on a proposal to open the state's electricity marketplace to competition and slash consumer utility rates. A joint Senate-Assembly conference committee voted 6-to-0 earlier this week in favor of the complex legislation, which would deregulate California's massive electric power industry while cutting consumer rates by at least 20 percent by 2002. The bill's supporters were busy on Thursday in Sacramento, Calif., trying to secure the votes they will need to pass the legislation by Saturday.   "We expect to be able to pass both the Assembly and the Senate Friday or Saturday and we anticipate a favorable result from the governor," said Republican Assemblyman Jim Brulte, one of the proposal's authors. The sweeping legislation would restructure the electric industry in California, ending the utility monopoly on generation and opening the market to competition. The bill has the support of the large investor-owned utilities that would be affected most, Pacific Gas & Electric Co, Enova Corp's San Diego Gas & Electric Co and Edison International's Southern California Edison.   "We believe this is a truly historic piece of legislation," Brulte said. "We are talking about a $20-billion-plus regulated monopoly, and in a very short transition period, moving it towards market competition." High electricity rates in California have made it difficult for businesses to compete, Brulte said. With lower rates, companies can reinvest millions of dollars back into the economy and create new jobs, he added. Senate President Pro Tem Bill Lockyer, a Democrat, has pronounced the electric industry restructuring legislation "the most significant economic measure of the year."   Under the legislation, electric utility customers in the state would have a choice of providers as early as January 1998. Under the proposal, municipal utilities would not be required to open their markets. However, most municipal utilities were expected to voluntarily comply. Investor-owned utilities would be compensated for their "stranded costs" through a system-wide competition transition charge. The funds raised from the charge would be used by the utilities to write-off stranded costs, such as nuclear power plants and certain power purchase contracts, incurred through the current regulated system, state officials said.   Under the proposed legislation, from January 1, 1998 to December 31, 2001, the transition charge would come to roughly one to two cents per kilowatt hour. The charge would help raise over $28 billion to cover stranded costs. After December 31, 2001, the utilities could extend a smaller charge for 10 years or more. While the charge is in place, investor-owned utility rates would be capped, state officials said. Initially, the utilities could issue, through the state infrastructure bank, about $5 billion in revenue bonds backed by the transition charge, said David Takashima, chief of staff for Senator Steve Peace, the conference committee's chairman.   Takashima said the utilities could issue additional "rate reduction bonds" later, for a total of $10 billion. State officials said it has yet to be determined whether the bonds would be federally tax-exempt. They are expected to be state tax-exempt. The state would not back the bonds. The proposed bond financings would provide substantial savings to the utilities, and those savings, under the legislation, would be passed on to customers. The legislation provides for no less than a 10 percent rate reduction beginning in 1998. Residential and small business customers would receive assured rate reductions of at least 20 percent by 2002.