The U.S. 30-year Treasury bond will likely remain under pressure in a shortened pre-holiday session on Friday, traders and analysts said. The Treasury market will close at 1400 EDT/1800 GMT on Friday, ahead of the U.S. Labor Day holiday on Monday. Bearish technicals also signal the benchmark long bond will not have the stamina to move back below the 7.0 percent yield level that has proved its anchor this week, they added. "The technical picture was busted today," said MMS International analyst James Padinha.   Pressured by reports of an upward revision of the second- quarter gross domestic product and strong July new home sales, the September bond contract broke through support at 108 16/32 to end down 21/32 at 108 4/3. "We're now looking at 107 6/32 on the September bond contract," Padinha said. Meanwhile, the 6-3/4-percent 30-year cash bond ended down 23/32 at 96-12/32 to yield 7.04 percent. Pandinha said it is difficult to predict tomorrow's market action based on the fundamentals since there are no major economic reports slated for release on Friday.   But the MMS International analyst said the market could use the Chicago Purchasing Managers Index for August, scheduled for release at 1000 EDT/1400 GMT as an excuse to sell in the face of bearish technicals. "Definitely, the risk of another selloff is there. The market is weak, technically," Padinha warned. Though the Chicago PMI only contains limited information about the national economy, it is often regarded as an indicator of the trend in the first major report released each month -- the National Association of Purchasing Management Index.   MCM MoneyWatch senior economist Astrid Adolfson said the shortened session ahead of a long weekend that will keep U.S. markets closed for three days may just accentuate moves. "Whatever trading there'll be on the Chicago PMI, by 11:30 (EDT) everybody will be gone. People are likely to want to sell. There is no reason to go long ahead of the long weekend and the employment report next week," Adolfson forecast. The NAPM August index will be released on September 3. Traders said this report may have a bigger market impact than usual since it will be the first U.S. release after the end of the vacation season in Europe and the United States.   Adolfson also noted there usually is some month-end buying ahead of Labor Day -- but little sign of it this time around. "We're are so bearish getting into next week, there is no buying of consequence," she said, stressing the market's uncertainty about the August employment to be released on September 6. A preliminary Reuter survey sees August payrolls up 238,000, with the unemployment rate at 5.3 percent and the average hourly earnings up 0.3 percent -- strong numbers that do not fit in the Federal Resaerve's forecast for moderate growth in the second half of the year.   Traders expected the market to remain under pressure until it sees economic data that would give a clearer picture of the Fed's policy outlook. The Federal Reserve Bank of New York temporarily added reserves via six-day fixed system repurchase agreements on Thursday to meet currency demand around the Labor day holiday. The Fed may supplement this operation on Friday with another round of multi-day system repos. If it does so, the Fed is likely to intervene sooner than its usual 1130 EDT/1530 GMT time due to the shortened trading session. -- 212-859-1666