U.S. debt futures ended lower in a late sell-off, as fears mounted that U.S. inflationary pressures were building into the third-quarter of the U.S. economy, traders and analysts said. Second-quarter U.S. Gross Domestic Product rose a revised 4.8 percent, which was the largest increase in two years. "The psychology has shifted," one bond futures trader said. "The feeling is that the Fed might be behind the curve." "We are seeing a slew of data that is making Greenspan Humphrey-Hawkins' testimony is questionable," another bond trader said.   The GDP data also showed that U.S. inventories in the second quarter fell to $7.2 billion, versus original estimates of $10.3 billion. Nonfarm inventories fell to $11.9 billion, from $15.5 billion, as originally reported. Most short- and intermediate-term longs liquidated positions early in the day, but some locals, who turned long after September bonds stabilized above 108-06/32, were forced to exit positions. "There is a three-day weekend coming up and people don't want to get barbequed at their barbeques," one trader said.   U.S. debt futures trade will be closed on Monday for the U.S. Labor Day holiday. T-bonds will close trade at 1210 CDT/1710 GMT on Friday, and Eurodollars will finish Friday's session at 1200 CDT/1700 GMT. Traders said there were also risks carrying long positions overnight, as foreigners are not guaranteed to emerge as buyers ahead of several Japanese economic reports and President Clinton's acceptance speech. One bond analyst said there were concerns that Clinton would propose a tax cut.   He said there was speculation that Clinton may include a tax cut in his speech on the last night of the Democratic National Convention after his top campaign manager resigned. Dick Morris, Clinton's manager, resigned after allegations that Morris had engaged in a year-long affair with a prostitute. "You've got (Republican candidate Bob) Dole coming up in the polls after he proposed a tax cut and put a supply-sider as his running mate," he said. "Now you have this resignation by Clinton's closest advisor."   One U.S. firm sold 2,000 September bonds late, which helped push September through 108-06/32. Sell-stop orders were touched off, which led September to 108-01/32. December becomes lead contract month on Thursday night. At the end of pit trade, September T-bonds were off 21/32 at 108-04/32, December Eurodollars were off three basis points at 94.05 and March Eurodollars were down six bps at 93.85. Derivatives Desk 312-408-8750;E-mail derivatives@reuter.com