Western U.S. electric utilities and other industry players say independent operation of the region's transmission grid would improve reliability, but raise concerns about the exact form of such an entity. Pacific Gas and Electric Co (PG&E), which serves central and northern California, believes an independent system operator (ISO) would be "a positive step in assuring reliability," said company spokesman Tony Ledwell. PG&E is not part of an interstate transmission agency being proposed in the Northwest, but "would certainly be supportive of it," he added.   PacifiCorp is leading an effort to form an organization in the Pacific Northwest, known by the acronym "IndeGO," which would control the region's transmission lines. When high-voltage lines in Oregon tripped Aug 10, "we were sitting here in California and we didn't know about it. If we had, we could have acted to reduce the impact," Ledwell said Since that widespread outage, the second this summer, regional utilities pledged to alert their counterparts about any significant outages of lines, plants or other facilities.   "Development of an ISO will definitely improve communication," said Terry Winter, director of power operations at San Diego Gas and Electric Co (SDG&E), a subsidiary of Enova Corp. He added that "as we develop a structure for an ISO, one of the criteria is that it could be expanded to include other western states." Edison International's Southern California Edison Co said separating transmission from generation operations would help industry communication since participants would no longer have an economic stake in the grid system.   PacifiCorp believes the biggest challenge facing the system is determining who has authority to coordinate and communicate activities between transmission operators. In California, deregulation plans before the state's legislature and public utilities commission require Edison, PG&E, and SDG&E to turn over transmission assets to an ISO, effective no later than Jan 1, 1998. The legislative bill, which could become law as early as Friday, also requires California's municipal and other publicly-owned utilities' participation.   "Our main concern is whether an ISO would be truly independent," said Nettie Hoge, director of Toward Utility Rate Normalization (TURN), a consumer advocacy group. "If it is completely dominated by utility interests, that would be anti-competitive." She asserted complete market competition would require that utilities also divest their generation assets. Although the California bill addresses the recovery of utility assets, such as nuclear plants, that would likely become uneconomic in a competitive market, it "never even mentions the 'D' word," noted Hoge.   But TURN is relatively content with the state's plan to establish a board, made up of elected officials, to oversee both the ISO and the Power Exchange planned for California's electricity market. "I don't know if it is all that needs to be done, but it is a good first step," said Hoge.