A second Clinton Adminstration without Robert Rubin heading the Treasury Department might vex U.S. financial markets which have grown accustomed to the Secretary's strong dollar policy and coolheaded maneuvering. "Rubin has done a fine job in that position," said Michael Faust, a portfolio manager at Bailard, Biehl and Kaiser, which manages just under $1.0 billion in global stocks and bonds. "Anyone who would come in there to replace him would have awfully big shoes to fill," Faust said.   Speculation swirled on Wall Street this week that Rubin might not stay in his post at the Treasury if Democrats returned to the White House this fall. Uncertainty increased after Rubin repeatedly sidestepped questions about any future cabinet role during interviews at the Democratic convention in Chicago. Rubin told Reuters Financial Television this week he plans to work with "every bit of energy I have" until the end of the year. "There's plenty of time then to worry about what I, personally, am going to do in the years to come," he said.   Rubin also dodged similar questions during an interview on CNN television on Monday. Rubin took over the helm of the Treasury from Lloyd Bentsen, who experts said was viewed with suspicion on Wall Street. Some thought Bentsen had tried to push down the dollar to gain an edge in trade negotiations with Japan. "Obviously under the Clinton Administration we've seen two distinctively different dollar policies," said Chris Widness, an international economist at Chase Securities Inc. "Under Rubin, the U.S. has certainly looked for a strong dollar."   That strategy backed up by timely bouts of joint central bank intervention helped the dollar battle back from post-World War II lows of 79.75 yen reached on April 19, 1995 and 1.3438 marks on March 8 of that year. The dollar traded near 108.45 yen and 1.4800 marks in Thursday afternoon dealings. Concern that a new Secretary might favor a return to the Bentsen era could spell trouble in the markets, some warned. As for the U.S. Treasury market, Widness noted that Alan Greenspan's reappointment as Chairman of the Federal Reserve and the outlook for the U.S. budget are more important than whether Rubin continues at the Treasury.   "Although, if we did get someone that was seen as looking for a dollar depreciation, it would probably hurt capital flows to the United States," said Widness, adding that could hurt U.S. stocks and, to a lesser degree, bonds. Any reaction to a change in Treasury leadership just might depend on how the dollar trades, others said. "In a weakening dollar environment, I think the market will be much more sensitive to a new Treasury person," according to Bailard's Faust.   Yet markets may have little to fear from a Rubin successor as the White House's firm dollar policy has yielded positive results. "That policy seems to have served the Administration very well in the last couple of years because the trade imbalance has come down (as) the Japanese economy is growing at a stronger rate," said John Rothfield, an international economist at NationsBanc-CRT. He predicted a second Clinton Administration would largely stay the course.   If that is true, then any new Treasury chief would need to be as effective as Rubin in convincing markets that the White House does indeed want a firm U.S. currency, experts said. "If he left, the first question people would ask the next guy is 'what's your view on the dollar?'" said Michael Perelstein, portfolio manager of MainStay International Funds. "And all I can say as a piece of advice is that they'd better say exactly the same thing, if not stronger," he added. "Otherwise, you get selling out of Tokyo and Frankfurt again."   As Treasury Secretary, Rubin helped to confront a Mexican peso crisis and a U.S. budget brawl that shut the federal government twice. The Adminstration's tactics were criticized in some circles, but with hindsight, judgements may soften. The Mexican government announced in July an early repayment of $7.0 billion to the U.S. Treasury and another $1.0 billion to the International Monetary Fund for loans obtained after the peso devaluation in late 1994. "You can argue how risky it was back then, but at least this time around Mexico is paying things off early," Faust said. "It's working out as well as they can hope for." Perhaps U.S. financial markets might miss Rubin even if a successor did skillfully promote a firm dollar. Wall Street can claim him as one of its own since he spent 26 years there, part of the time as co-chairman of powerhouse Goldman, Sachs and Co Inc. "He certainly has the confidence of Wall Street and he certainly is aware of how markets interact," Perelstein said. But what of his future at the U.S. Treasury? "It's hard to see what he could achieve more in another four years as Secretary of the Treasury," Widness said. "He's at the top of his game." -- 212-859-1668