From 1986 to 1993, small business investment companies (SBICs) backed by U.S. government-guaranteed money failed more and performed worse than financial institutions backed solely by private funds, according to a study by the Federal Reserve Bank of Chicago. The findings are detailed in an article in the September/October issue of the Chicago Fed's Economic Perspectives entitled "Performance and Access to Government Guarantees: The Case of Small Business Investment Companies."   The authors -- three Chicago Fed economists and a University of North Carolina assistant professor -- examined data on the financial condition and investments of 280 SBICs, which are financial intermediaries that finance small business through equity investments and loans. SBICs are licensed and regulated by the Small Business Administration. The researchers found that SBICs failed at a rate of 11 percent a year, twice the 5.5 percent rate for savings-and-loan institutions. Commercial banks during the same years failed at only a one percent rate.   By 1993, 56 percent of the 280 SBICc had failed, they said. The researchers found that many SBICs performed worse -- had a lower return on equity -- than other financial institutions. They cited several possible reasons for the higher failure rate among SBICs, including that the manner in which government subsidies were offered might have affected performance. But they said they could not rule out the possibility that the subsidies encouraged the SBICs to assume more risk. "We find that high usage of SBA-guaranteed debt is associated with poor performance, particularly for nonbank-owned SBICs," the article said. "The results suggest that public subsidies aimed at encouraging the flow of funds to small firms may have unintended consequences if the assets funded by SBICs are riskier than they would have been in the absence of the subsidy," the article said. The researchers said it was too soon to tell the impact of 1994 revisions to rules regulating SBIC programs. -- Derivatives Desk 312-408-8750 E-mail:derivatives@reuters.com