American Express Co's stock is not likely to be affected by the departure of the company's treasurer, Walter Berman, who was also chief financial officer of the Travel Related Services (TRS) unit, traders and analysts said. One analyst theorized that Berman decided to step down after the vacant job of chief financial officer was given a few weeks ago to Richard Goeltz, an executive with the National Westminster Bank Plc group. Goeltz begins his new duties Tuesday.   American Express announced Berman's departure Thursday through the release of a letter to employees from Chairman and Chief Executive Harvey Golub. The letter was laudatory in its description of Berman's long career at American Express. Berman joined the company in 1965. He left to work in finance at American Airlines (now AMR Corp ) from 1969 to 1973 but then rejoined American Express. "During his long and distinguished tenure with American Express, Walter made many significant and lasting contributions to our company," Golub wrote.   "He provided outstanding advice and counsel to the OCE (office of the chief executive), the entire TRS leadership team and to me personally on virtually all of the key initiatives we have undertaken in the past several years to grow our core card and travel businesses," he said. In a letter to employees two weeks ago announcing the appointment of Goeltz, Golub said the company interviewed many excellent candidates from both inside and outside of American Express.   Berman was the most visible financial executive at the company after the departure in April of Michael Monaco, who was executive vice president and chief financial officer. The analyst, who did not want to be identified, said Berman was probably disappointed that the CFO job went to Goeltz, an outsider. The analyst also noted that Berman was not well known to Wall Street analysts who track the company.   An August 12 Golub letter announcing the hiring of Goeltz noted that the company had been looking for an executive who could provide "outstanding leadership to the finance group, effectively represent American Express to investors, lenders and rating agencies, and serve as a key adviser on matters of finance and strategy." Golub had described Monaco's departure in April as the result of "a disagreement with my colleagues in the office of the chief executive and me over the staffing of the company's finance organization."   Golub said in a meno on that occasion that a reorganization of the finance organization had transformed it into a companywide department serving all of the business units. Analysts and company sources said at the time that Monaco's exit signified more than anything else the exit of the last top-level executive associated with former chief executive James Robinson, who was ousted by the board of directors several years ago after a series of embarrassing controversies.   Although Berman had been with the company through the Robinson years, presumably he was not particularly close to Robinson. Asked for comment on Berman's resignation, a spokeswoman for American Express would only say that Golub's letter on the subject "speaks for itself." Berman, who was not available for comment, plans to start a consulting business focusing on corporate finance, acquisitions, re-engineering and maximizing short- and long-term shareholder value, the Golub letter said. Golub's letter said the company would begin recruiting a successor to Berman and would consider candidates from inside and outside the comp;any. American Express shares were off 5/8 to 44-5/8 by midafternoon Thursday.