Cleveland officials said Thursday that a disagreement with Grigsby Brandford & Co last week forced them to postpone an $82 million bond deal, a move that will significantly raise interest costs for the city. The bonds were finally brought to market Thursday by a new bookrunner, Smith Barney Inc, but rising interest rates over the past week mean the parking facilities refunding revenue bonds will now cost the city at least several hundred thousand dollars more. Executives with Grigsby Brandford were not available to comment.   In a statement released by Cleveland Mayor Michael White's press office, city Finance Director Kathryn Burrer Hyer said the city was unable to reach an agreement with Grigsby and therefore could not execute a bond purchase agreement last week. The statement did not provide details on what the disagreement was. Hyer added in the statement that the bonds were priced Thursday with the same underwriter group, although the city rearranged the order of the firms in the deal, placing Grigsby at the bottom of the list.   Gene Saffold, a director at Smith Barney, said the market had moved away from the deal by five to 10 basis points since last week. Grigsby was dropped to a co-manager position in Thursday's pricing, with A.G. Edwards & Sons Inc moving up to the co-senior manager slot Smith Barney held in the original pricing. Saffold said Cleveland decided to redo the management team after Grigsby Brandford couldn't resolve technical problems with the bond purchase agreement after last week's pricing. He added that Smith Barney was "happy" to take over the deal and that the firm expected to sign later Thursday essentially the same bond purchase agreement that caused Grigsby Brandford problems last week. "None of the terms have changed," Saffold said, referring to the bond purchase agreement. He also noted that the preliminary official statement and the insurance policy for the bonds by MBIA Insurance Corp, a unit of MBIA Inc, were also unchanged from last week. --Karen Pierog, 312-408-8647