A surprising upward revision to U.S. second quarter Gross Domestic Product growth indicates the economy's underlying trend remains brisk, hinting that strength may spill over to the third quarter, analysts said. "(The GDP figures) seem to suggest to the policy makers that there is some serious underlying strength here," said William Griggs, managing director at consulting firm Griggs & Santow Inc. "The idea of really slowing this economy down dramatically is becoming less and less likely," he added. The Commerce Department announced on Thursday that U.S. second quarter GDP was revised up to 4.8 percent from the previous 4.2 percent, marking the largest quarterly growth figure since a 4.9 percent rise in the second quarter of 1994. "The number was surprising ... There was a substantial revision," Griggs said. Analysts said revisions in some key areas, such as business investment, net exports and inventories, provided important indications as to how the economy might behave in the third quarter. "Inventories were revised to show a smaller gain in the second quarter," Griggs said. "And that is important for the current quarter because it suggests ... there wasn't any overhang and we probably did some inventory building," Griggs added. U.S. second quarter inventories were revised down to up $7.2 billion from the $10.3 billion rise registered in the first advance release of the GDP numbers last month. Analysts also said an upward revision in the business investment component hinted the economy might be slowing down at a much more gradual pace than previously thought. "This has been an area where you have been looking for some slowdown to take place ... But it really didn't show up in the second quarter premilinary numbers and it shows up even less here," Griggs said. "This suggests there is still a fairly substantial sustaining force behind the (economic) expansion," he added. Business investment was revised up to show a 4.0 percent gain in the second quarter, compared with a 0.5 percent increase in the advance GDP numbers. In dollar terms, business investment was revised up to $750.9 billion from $744.5 billion. Analysts said a drop in the net exports component of the report also contributed to the strong upward revision of the overall GDP number. They added, however, that the smaller trade gap had been expected. "You expected you were going to get a reduction in the deficit and you were going to end up with some help from that source," Griggs said. Analysts said the overall GDP number was likely to prompt analysts to revise upward their estimates for the third quarter GDP report. "It implies, if anything, a stronger third quarter than probably the 2.5 percent that the consensus is looking for," said Cary Leahey, senior financial markets economist at Lehman Government Securities Inc. Analysts said the revised GDP numbers were negative for the Treasury market. The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond fell about one-third of a point shortly after the numbers were released. Bonds kept their bearish mood to be quoted off 10/32 at 96-25/32 in mid-morning trade. The T-bond yield broke the psychological 7.0 percent barrier to read 7.01 percent. "The (revised) GDP data just increased the odds of a Federal Reserve tightening in Setpember," said a money market trader at a foreign investment bank. The Fed's policy-setting arm, the Federal Open Market Committee, next meets on September 24 to decide the future of monetary policy. -- 212-859-1676