By Rich Miller, Economics Correspondent The United States is pressing the World Bank to set new criteria for its developing country borrowers, requiring them to certify that they do not condone bribery and corruption practices in the trade arena, a senior U.S. official said on Wednesday. "We're pushing very hard," Commerce Secretary Mickey Kantor told Reuters in an interview during the Democratic Party national convention. "It would mean tremendous progress." He said World Bank President James Wolfensohn was very sympathetic to the idea. The multilateral organization lends tens of billions of dollars to developing countries each year and thus has tremendous leverage in affecting their policies. Borrowing nations, some of whom feel that the Bank already meddles too much in their affairs, might not take too kindly to the idea, however. Kantor described the discussions with the World Bank and other international lending institutions as part of a multi-faceted approach by the United States to try to stamp out bribery and corruption in world markets. "It is a terrible burden on trade," he said. "It creates a situation where the least competitive product can win out." In the one-year period to May 1995, the U.S. government learned of 100 cases of bribery undercutting U.S. companies' ability to win $45 billion in contracts. It is illegal for U.S. companies to bribe officials when competing for foreign countracts. By comparison, Kantor said, 14 countries allow their firms to take tax deductions for bribery payments. Under U.S. pressure the Paris-based Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development has backed the criminalization of bribery and urged those countries to change their laws, Kantor said. He said the United States needed to work on a variety of fronts -- through regional agreements, bilateral relations, in the World Trade Organization and elsewhere -- to convince countries to of the need to stamp out bribery and corruption. "We have made some progress," Kantor said. "I'm encouraged. But it's one of those things we've got to continue to work on."