Britain's T&N Plc offered little cheer to investors with its interim results on Thursday, stoking fears of more legal damages from its former asbestos products and warning the second half may not bring a hoped-for recovery. The engineering and motor components firm's pretax profit for the first six months fell to 58.1 million pounds ($90.61 million) from 73.2 million, in line with share market expectations, mainly as a result of its moves to cut the cash it ties up in undelivered product stocks. "We are continuing to take actions to ensure underlying margins are maintained even if volumes are less than buoyant," chairman Sir Colin Hope said in a statement with the results. T&N also warned that trading prospects for the second half of the year were more gloomy than it had previously hoped for and it opted to pay a flat dividend of 3.0 pence per share. Although share analysts said that none of these items were in themselves unexpected or especially disappointing, the fact that they all came together meant T&N's shares took a hit. By 1316 GMT the shares steadied down 9.0 pence at 135 pence after fairly heavy volume of over 4.5 million shares. Compounding the gloomy picture, T&N signalled that it might need to make a 50 million pound ($78 million) provision later this year to handle more U.S. asbetos injury claims. This warning shot, which Hope characterised as prudence ahead of a complex legal review in the United States, provided an unwelcome reminder that the group still carries a heavy burden from its past when it made many products containing asbestos. Focusing on this legacy, recent media speculation had built up an expectation that T&N might use Thursday's results statement to reveal a new type of insurance policy to cap its liabilities. But Hope said that, while the company was indeed continuing to assess possible asbestos insurance options -- and saw a much better chance of them being affordable now than it had in the past -- it was incorrect to suggest that a deal was near. "It is true that we have been looking. (But) I think that the imminence (suggested) is misleading," he told reporters, adding, "Don't hold your breath in terms of speed of solution." Above all, he added, the firm recognised that shareholders suffered from the weight of potential asbestos liabilities. "The board's objective remains to find some way of unlocking that shareholder value which has been knocked out of T&N's shares as a result of (this) sheer uncertainty." Part of this was looking to see if there is any way of using insurance "to limit or reduce the risk of rogue cases developing -- a sort of ring-fencing on uncertain areas", he explained. "That has up to now been virtually impossible to do at any sort of economically-affordable premium. However, what has happened is that the industry position has changed -- the insurance industry knows substantially more about asbestos now than it did two or three years ago," he added. Besides asbestos, which share analysts say remains the most important factor constraining T&N's market performance, the company has another long-running saga which needs resolution. Hope said he was now more hopeful than a year ago that T&N will realise its aim to acquire control of German piston maker Kolbenschmidt, which has been hampered by regulatory obstacles. "Discussions with the German regulatory authorities are continuing and progress is expected before the end of the year," he said. Analysts say they share the company's enthusiasm for an eventual deal with Kolbenschmidt on industrial grounds. Until the year-end, T&N has an option to acquire just under 50 percent of the company's shares from German bank Commerzbank AG for a maximium price of 242.2 million marks ($164 million). ($1=.6412 Pound) ($1=1.4770 Mark)