Ladbroke Group Plc said Thursday that Hilton Hotels Corp. plans to buy a 5 percent stake in Ladbroke in a deal that would reunite the Hilton Hotel brand. The value of the transaction was not dislosed. Following the news, Hilton Hotels' stock rose $1 to 108 on the New York Stock Exchange. Ladbroke said the agreement also included an opportunity for the two to buy stakes in each other, subject to rules on cross directorships. "HHC's current intention is to acquire a 5 percent stake in Ladbroke at the earliest opportunity after the signing of the agreements," Ladbroke said. Hilton, which is the most recognised brand name in the world's hotel industry, has operated separately since 1964, when Hilton International was spun off from Hilton Hotels. Ladbroke acquired Hilton International in 1987. With 400 hotels in 49 countries, the reunification of Hilton will further enhance Hilton's leadership position in one of the world's fastest growing industries, the companies said in a joint statement. Under the terms of the deal the two Hilton arms will co-operate on sales and marketing and hotel development starting next year. Also, Hilton's president and chief executive officer, Stephen Bollenbach, will join the board of directors of Ladbroke and Ladbroke Chief Executive Officer Peter George will part of the Hilton Hotel board. "One of our stated growth objectives has been to leverage the powerful Hilton brand name by expanding our international presence and this agreement with Ladbroke is a significant step toward achieving that goal," Bollenbach said. Ladbroke said the deal would immediately give Beverly Hills, Calif.-based Hilton Hotels a bigger presence in the international hotel business as well as allow Ladbroke to take part in Hilton's growing gambling business in the United States. "This deal makes good sense for our customers, our employees and our shareholders," George said. "Through this alliance, our two companies intend to lead the hotel and gaming markets worldwide." Hilton International will expand Hilton's franchises in Mexico and Canada, for which it will receive 20 percent of the profits. In return Hilton International will participate in Hilton's full-service franchising businesses, taking 20 percent of profits from future developments. The two also plan to explore and develop a mid-market hotel brand in local markets around the world.