Business in some minor metal markets is starting to pick up, as the summer draws to a close and traders turn their attention to fourth quarter requirements. Pockets of activity across the board in metals such as cobalt, chrome, magnesium and germanium suggested that the summer slowdown was drawing to a close with U.S. Labour Day next Monday traditionally signalling the end of the holiday season. "It is getting better in things like cobalt and chrome. Consumers are coming back to their desks and looking to do some business," one trader said. Cobalt prices were consolidating after the recent run-up from the July lows, although some traders are expecting further gains in the next few weeks, particularly in the high grade where orders from the aerospace industry are seen flowing. "There are good enquiries, but some consumers are holding back, hoping to get metal at lower prices," another trader said. Nevertheless, there has been business over the last 24 hours in Russian cobalt between $21.75 and just above $22.00 per lb, with the price now straddling the latter level. Other traders reported that the pick-up in enquiry in cobalt was not just restricted to the metal, as chemicals such as salts and oxides were also seeing some interest. Chrome prices were fully steady for both high-nitrogen and low-nitrogen aluminothermic, as supplies of cheap metal dried up in Europe and the U.S. against a background of keen consumer enquiry, they said. But germanium metal and dioxide prices continued to soften, with the market remaining under pressure from offers of material from the Ukrainian stockpile. In magnesium, business was reported across a broad spectrum as the beleagured market showed signs of at least stabilising after recent declines. Heavily-oxidised Chinese magnesium was being talked at levels possibly as low as $2,200 a tonne. However, Chinese business was mostly around the $2,500 level. Also in magnesium, there now appears to be a definite differential emerging in CIS grades, with Ukrainian running at a discount to Russian metal. Traders said, unlike Ukrainian, Russian magnesium can be traded in the U.S. so there is more of a market for this metal. "It is a little difficult to pin down, but Ukrainian in Rotterdam is perhaps trading at $2,600 and quoted at $2,600/2,800, while Russian (business) is nearer $2,800," one trader said. Elsewhere, offers of Chinese antimony were reported around the $2,500/2,600 level, although Rotterdam business was thin on the ground. Bismuth prices were hardly moving, with light business around the $3.20/lb level ahead of a U.S. DLA tender next week. Indium continued to move lower, with producer offerings also exerting some pressure on the market. Selenium was similarly looking somewhat soggy, against a background of Russian offers and reports of Phillipine tender business at $2.50/lb, they said. --London Newsroom, +44 171 542 8080