Rolls-Royce said on Thursday it was confident over its prospects after one-off charges pushed it into the red in the first half of the year. The company backed its optimism with the announcement of a major new aircraft engine order. "The immediate outlook is steady and, with the introduction of new products over the next few years, the company is confident of achieving future growth," Rolls-Royce said in a statement. The company reported a first half loss of 169 million pounds ($263.2 million) compared with a 70 million pound profit a year ago, due to exceptional charges of 248 million. The charges relate to Rolls-Royce's earlier decision to pull out of the loss-making large steam power generation business. The first-half results matched analysts' expectations. Rolls-Royce said the results showed the underlying strength of its aerospace group. "Our decision to withdraw from large steam power generation recognises the need to focus upon those businesses where we have established or can establish leading market positions," chairman Sir Ralph Robins said. The main growth for Rolls-Royce is in civil aircraft engine orders, but Robins said it is too early yet to make firm predictions on future prospects in this market segment. "The airlines have had many years of lossmaking and now they are in the second year of making profits, so I am slightly cautious how long this improvement continues," he told Reuters. "But there is no doubt there is much more activity than there was last year," Robins added, while speaking on engine orders for civil aircraft in the first-half of 1996. Separately, Rolls-Royce received an order worth up to $450 million from the Kato Group of Egypt to power a batch of Russian-built Tupolev aircraft. The company recently secured orders for planes to be used by a host of Asian flag carriers such as Malaysia Airlines, Thai Airways International and Cathay Pacific. Rolls-Royce's sales from continuing operations rose to 1.77 billion pounds from 1.49 billion pound. The order book stood at 7.0 billion pounds at the half year, up from 6.5 billion a year earlier. "There is a lot of activity in the civil business. We are seeing growth everywhere," Robins said. "We are negotiating with airlines throughout the world for our whole range of products." Robins said spares orders for engines had continued to increase in the first-half as airlines have begun to re-stock after a long period in which they ran down their stocks. "We may be seeing around 10 percent (spares order growth)," he said. Shares in Roll-Royce fell 4-1/2 pence to 227 amid slight market disappointed that the company held its interim dividend unchanged at two pence per share. Speaking on the results, an analyst said: "The only disappointment is that the dividend has been maintained -- most people were looking for a small increase." ($1=.6421 Pound)