Venezuelan debt and equity markets have staged an impressive rally recently but foreign investors say it could falter as the latest hitch in the privatisation process highlights concerns over economic progress. "(Venezuela) is probably the worst economy in Latin America because it has the most to do in terms of turning around," said Nigel Rendell, emerging markets strategist at James Capel. The latest blow to investor confidence came on Wednesday when Venezuela postponed the planned sale of Banco de Venezuela, a key asset on the privatisation block, after rumours and confusion led to the withdrawal of bids. The privatisation of the bank, valued at a minimum price of $275 million, had been originally scheduled for Friday. Foreign investors said the move by oil-rich Venezuela, which in April embarked on an IMF-backed economic reform programme, casts doubt over its commitment to the privatisation process. "The fact they have suspended the sale is worrying. It was seen as a major test of how committed to privatisation the government was," one London-based analyst said. The postponment of the Banco de Venezuela sale capped a bad week for Venezuela's ailing privatisation programme. Just days earlier, the sale of Alucasa, a small aluminium concern, was delayed and union protests started this week at the proposed year-end privatisation of the state-owned holding company Corporacion Venezolana de Guayana (CVG). Foreign investor confidence ahead of the Banco de Venezuela privatisation had been high, driving the Caracas stock index to record levels of 4,721.76 points. But share prices are likely to take a knock on Thursday after the news of the delay. In London, Venezuelan benchmark debt, which has climbed from 56 percent of face value in early January to 78 percent this week, was off some 1/8 of a point on Thursday after the suspension of the planned privatisation. "Venezuela has been one of the top peformers in Latin America," said BankAmerica analyst Richard Gray. But now some investors are ready to exit. "Some profit-taking is probaby sensible if you are a fund manager and have made money," said Capel's Rendell. Economic concern centres on the inflationary outlook, the country's bloated fiscal deficit and the strength of the Bolivar currency. Inflation stood at 112.6 percent in the 12-months to the end of July. "As a foreign investor I would be cautious of taking in a long position for more than a few weeks. It could be quite easy to lose everything on the currency," Rendell added. Venezuela's reform package, which has provoked fivefold gasoline price increases and freeing of interest rate and foreign exchange controls, aims to pare the fiscal deficit to two percent of gross domestic product. Investors say the country's saving grace this year has been the stronger price for its key export oil. World oil prices in 1996 are averaging $18.80 a barrel against $16.94 in 1995. For Venezuela, with an output as high as 3.2 million barrels per day, it has meant windfall revenues. "Venezuela has always lived off the oil revenue it has generated and never faced up to its economic problems," said Rendell. Gray noted Venezuelan economic reforms are not going fast enough and income shortfalls have been camouflaged by the high oil revenues. "The Venezuelan argument is if the fiscal deficit is covered because of the oil surpluss, so what?" The only risk will come if prices fall, he added.