British Airways chief executive Robert Ayling said on Thursday that a market price should be put on runway slots at congested but popular airports such as London Heathrow to give new competition a chance of finding space. "A market system, the classic way to allocate a scarce resource is the only way to ensure competition," he told the Financial Times Aerospace and Air Transport conference. For the right price trading would encourage some incumbent airlines to move to less busy airports in return for a lump sum from those wanting their slots.   "There is no legal impediment to secondary trading of slots. All we need is some enthusiasm in official quarters," he said. "There will be a massive and natural development in the market for used slots traded between airlines at prices governed by the laws of supply and demand." The remarks follow demands by rivals to British Airways' controversial plans to link up with American Airlines who say BA must give up some of its 38 percent share of slots at Heathrow to prevent the combination dominating the market.   The U.S. government has also made access to slots at Heathrow a key issue in its "open skies" talks with Britain, which broke down earlier this week. Previous efforts at getting an agreement to liberalise the transatlantic market have foundered on the Heathrow issue. United Airline's senior vice president for marketing David Coltman told the FT conference that the BA/American alliance should only be allowed to go ahead if slots are made available to the competition at Heathrow as well as at the two constrained U.S. hubs of Chicago and New York JFK.   But he also said BA should be compelled to end its alliance with USAir Group because a tripartite alliance involving two of the biggest U.S. domestic operators would create an excessive concentration of market power. "Until the governments of the U.S. and UK can honestly assure themselves that marketplace competition is capable of preventing this proposed alliance from abusing its power, I do not believe it can be allowed to go forward," he said. -- Greg Mahlich, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717