Analysts said they will cut their full-year dividend forecasts for Rolls-Royce, after the aircraft engine maker decided to keep its interim pay-out unchanged. "The dividend is clearly disappointing," said Paul Pickford, analyst at Panmure Gordon. He trimmed his full 1996 forecast to 5.4 pence per share from an original estimate of 5.6 pence. Nick Cunningham at BZW, who had earlier pencilled in a pay-out of 5.5 pence, said he did not yet know by how much he would come down. "You'll probably have to wait for profits to really start to moving before you'll see significant dividend increases," Cunningham said.   Rolls-Royce, which kept its interim dividend at two pence per share, reported a first half pre-tax loss of 169 million stg, compared with a 70 million stg profit a year ago. The results were hit by one-off charges of 248 million stg for the withdrawal from large steam power generation. "There may have been a feeling on the board that it would seem wrong to raise the dividend having just decided to pull out of Parsons and ICL, which is fair enough," said Cunningham. "They have to be careful. It is a cyclical business," he added.   Unlike Cunningham, Panmure's Pickford said he would also slightly lower his full-year result forecast as he was slightly disappointed over Rolls' underlying profits. Pointing to an industrial dispute earlier this year and the collapse of Dutch aircraft maker Fokker, he said these one-off factors offset a 10 percent rise in spares demand. "We were expecting to see the underlying aerospace profitability move forward on the back of increased spares demand. That wasn't really the case," Pickford said. "There were a couple of one-off factors that cost them 20 million stg on the bottom line," he said.   Rising spares demand should boost profits in coming years, but this was already more than discounted in the share price, both Cunningham and Pickford said. "Overall we are still sellers," said Cunningham. "There is profit recovery coming through, but it will be much more muted than the share price implies." "But the momentum of orders will probably keep shares at the current level or even higher through Farnborough," said Pickford. The Farnborough air show starts on Monday and ends on Friday amid market hopes that Rolls-Royce may announce new engine orders in between. Shares in Rolls-Royce fell 6-1/2 pence to 225 by 1427 GMT, after a strong performance earlier in the week. -- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717