The hijacking of a Sudanese airliner to London this week has focused attention on whether Britain's liberal attitude towards political refugees has made it a haven for those planning violence abroad. London is home to numerous exile groups and opposition newspapers from around the world but critics say the government is not doing enough to stop an active minority from fomenting trouble abroad. "It's our belief that Britain is soft on terrorism," said Mike Whine of the Board of Deputies of British Jews. "Most of the main Moslem opposition groups are represented in London. We object to the fact that some are plotting activity, some of it aimed against Western and Jewish interests," he told Reuters. The Israeli embassy and a building housing Jewish organisations in London were both bombed in 1994. One of the reasons that London attracts exiled activists is that under British laws, refugees do not have to give up being politically active when claiming asylum. Government attempts to crack down on those who it feels are abusing British hospitality suffered a setback in March when Home Secretary Michael Howard failed in a bid to deport fundamentalist Islamic dissident Mohammed al-Masari. Masari's outspoken attacks on the Saudi royal family strained relations with Riyadh and caused British businessmen to complain about losing lucrative contracts. "The United Kingdom has long-standing traditions of providing asylum to genuine refugees," Howard wrote in Thursday's Daily Telegraph. "(Terrorists) must not abuse the hospitality of free nations by claiming asylum while they concoct terrorist outrages... "We (have) proposed a new international instrument to put beyond doubt the proposition that terrorists and those who plan, fund or incite terrorism have no right to be considered for asylum," he wrote. Evidence of possible London links to violence abroad came in June when a British magistrate ordered Algerian Rachid Ramda to be extradited to France where he faces charges linked to a militant Islamic bombing campaign. A lawyer for the French government told the court Ramda was an influential member of Algeria's Armed Islamic Group (GIA). The Sunday Times said earlier this year that fundamentalist Islamic group Hamas was operating out of a house in north west London, publishing a magazine condoning violence against civilians in the Middle East. But Lord Avebury, chairman of parliament's human rights group, tried to play down fears that the government was taking too relaxed a view of the problem. "I don't think Britain is being too soft at all. There are lots and lots of people who are refused entrance because of their links to armed opposition movements, for example the Kurds," he said. "People who look at these problems should be careful to distinguish between those who are involved with political problems and those who are occupied with terrorism."