Rolls-Royce said Thursday it was confident over its prospects after one-time charges pushed it into the red in the first half of the year. The company backed its optimism with the announcement of a major new aircraft engine order. "The immediate outlook is steady and, with the introduction of new products over the next few years, the company is confident of achieving future growth," Rolls-Royce said in a statement. The company reported a first-half loss of 169 million pounds ($263.2 million) compared with a 70 million pound ($109 million) profit a year ago. It said exceptional charges of 248 million pounds ($386 million) related to its earlier decision to pull out of the money-losing large steam power generation business contributed to the red ink. The first-half results matched analysts' expectations, and Rolls-Royce said the results showed the underlying strength of its aerospace group. "Our decision to withdraw from large steam power generation recognises the need to focus upon those businesses where we have established or can establish leading market positions," Chairman Sir Ralph Robins said. The main growth for Rolls-Royce was in civil aircraft engine orders, but Robins said it was too early to make firm predictions on future prospects in this market segment. "The airlines have had many years of loss-making and now they are in the second year of making profits, so I am slightly cautious how long this improvement continues," he told Reuters. "But there is no doubt there is much more activity than there was last year," Robins added. Rolls-Royce said it received an order worth up to $450 million from the Kato Group of Egypt to power Russian-built Tupolev aircraft. The company recently secured orders for planes to be used by a host of Asian flag carriers such as Malaysia Airlines, Thai Airways International and Cathay Pacific. Rolls-Royce's sales from continuing operations rose to 1.77 billion pounds ($2.75 billion) from 1.49 billion pounds ($2.32 billion). The order book stood at 7.0 billion pounds ($10.9 billion) at the half year, up from 6.5 billion ($10.1 billion) a year earlier. "There is a lot of activity in the civil business. We are seeing growth everywhere," Robins said. "We are negotiating with airlines throughout the world for our whole range of products." Robins said spares orders for engines had continued to increase in the first-half as airlines have begun to re-stock after a long period in which they ran down their stocks.