Bank of England deputy governor Howard Davies said on Thursday the UK had as good a chance as most EU countries of meeting the Maastricht convergence criteria for European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU). "From an economic point of view I am confident that the UK will have as good a chance of meeting the Maastricht convergence criteria as most EU countries," he said in a speech prepared for delivery at a conference in Alpbach, Austria. But he said development of the single European market did not depend on EMU going ahead and warned against protectionist measures being taken against countries which did not sign up.   "The development and implementation of the single market pre-dates any move towards monetary union and we would argue that its beenfits and validity do not depend on a move to a single currency by some or all EU countries." Davies said if some countries did not sign up to EMU, there were no legal grounds for EMU members to take protectionist measures against them. All members were covered equally by the Maastricht Treaty. "Protectionist measures taken to exclude an EU country from the single market would therefore be illegal, as well as against the best interests of the members of the monetary union themselves."   Davies said he would not rule out the possibility that Britain could be among the first entrants to the single currency. And he staunchly defended an inflation target against charges that it is second best to exchange rate stability in generating anti-inflation credentials. "We find it difficult to accept that some form of exchange rate peg against an anchor currency is unambiguously superior to an inflation target in generating credibility and in giving a clear message...that monetary policy will not be loosened to accommodate inflationary pressures," he said.   For those countries which stayed outside EMU, he said nominal exchange rate stability was not the only road along which they may wish to travel towards the single currency area. "Most of the outs -- actual and prospective -- will not have converged sufficiently to be strong candidates for membership of monetary union and ...pegging their currencies against the Euro may not be the best way for them to move towards achieveing greater convergence," he said. -- Rosemary Bennett, London Newsroom +44 171 542 7715