European bond markets face a tumultuous few months as wrangling over 1997 budgets reaches fever pitch ahead of European Economic and Monetary Union (EMU), analysts said on Thursday. And while France tops most analysts' lists as the country to avoid, Denmark, Britain and Germany are deemed a safe bet. "With all these budget concerns you really want to look for EMU-free havens -- UK and Denmark," said Adrian Owens, European economist at Bank Julius Baer in London. For those unconvinced EMU will go ahead, he said Bunds would be first choice. France, Germany, Britain, Italy, Spain, Sweden, Portugal, and Greece were all set to unveil budgets beginning in the coming months -- but French debt has the most to lose. The French economy faces a catalogue of woes -- elusive growth, record high unemployment, a battered currency, and a labour market ready to show its disatisfaction about it all. And all these troubles come before a deficit-cutting 1997 budget is presented on September 18. The budget is expected to contain around 60 billion francs of savings as the French government strives to meet EMU criteria. Under EMU, budget deficits must be no more than three percent of gross domestic product. Owens forecast 4.8 percent for France in 1996 and 4.0 percent in 1997. The bond market has already suffered from recent EMU pressures, with the gap between 10-year French and German bond yields opening to eight basis points from below parity in May. This gap is known as the yield spread, and is measured in 100ths of a full point, a basis point. Owens sees it moving to 30 basis points in the months ahead, particularly if the French government trims favourable tax advantages for insurance policies in the budget. Those have been supporting the largely domestically-held bond market, he said. Phyllis Reed, European bond strategist at BZW, was equally pessimitic on France. Apart from EMU and currency worries, the market is expensive now, having fully converged on Bunds earlier in the year, she said. She expects the French yield curve to flatten as short end prices continue to come under pressure and yields rise. The yields earned by bonds tend to increase over time, so usually the longer the maturity the higher the yield; the yield curve. Analysts said Italian bonds will also suffer as the government prepares to slash 32.4 trillion lire off its 1997 spending plans. "The difficulty will be getting agreement on those cuts," said Robert Prior, European economist at HSBC James Capel in London. "There will be quite a bit of brinkmanship going on." Amid the budget turmoil, BZW's Reed would opt for Denmark. "The trade we would recommend is switching out of France in the five-year area and into Denmark," she said. The yield spread between those to bonds is currently around 80 basis points and Reed sees it narrowing to 50 basis points in the medium term. Denmark, which opted out of EMU in its 1993 referendum, unveiled a draft budget on Tuesday. Ironically, it would meet the EMU criteria. It predicted its deficit would be 3.1 percent of GDP in 1996 and 2.2 percent in 1997. Owens said investors would also be well-placed in the British debt market. A surprise 1.66 billion sterling surplus in July revived hopes Britain may yet meet its revised 27 billion sterling budget forecast for 1996/7. And Britain's EMU opt-out clause will provide insulation against monetary union worries, Owens said. Then there is Germany, although it will by no means have an easy task hammering out its 1997 budget. As with France, Germany plans to drastically cut spending in 1997. Analysts predict its deficit-to-GDP target will loom toward four percent. But if EMU falls apart, German bonds are bound to soar, analysts said. "Germany has its budget concerns but the issue is how these concerns knock onto EMU. Any backsliding in the EMU process and the main beneficiary will be Germany," Owens said.