Dutch-Belgian insurance group Fortis said on Thursday it wants to expand its businesses worldwide through both acquisition and organic growth, particularly in the life insurance and investment sectors. "We do have an external growth strategy and we want to build another strong base in Europe; we want to expand in the U.S. and in the longer term we would like to build a position in Asia as well," director Saskia van Opijnen told Reuters in a telephone interview from Utrecht.   Fortis earlier announced a 21 percent increase in first half profits to 366 million ecus. Analysts had forecast Fortis, which is equally-owned by Fortis Amev and Fortis AG, to report a net profit of between 341 million and 371 million ecus. Yvette Van der Schaaf, director group reporting, said any acquisitions must meet the group's criteria of 12 percent return on equity per annum and seven to 12 percent growth in earnings per share. She did not rule out acquisitions in any area, but added, "We like life and investment, where it's profitable of course...It depends on performance and price."   In Europe, Fortis' main markets are the Netherlands, Belgium and to a lesser extent Spain. In the UK Fortis has a non-life operation and in France a life company. In the U.S., Van der Schaaf said Fortis was taking measures to tackle the disappointing performance of its life business, which was in part due to cyclical factors. "We are being very selective about what lines we want to be in and the way we handle them," she added. Fortis United States reported a 10 percent fall in operating profits to 45 million ecus. The health insurance result remained in the red but was up on the first quarter, the company said.   Apart from improving existing U.S. operations, van Opijnen said Fortis was also looking at acquisitions "if attractive files present themselves." In Asia, Fortis currently has only a small participation in Singapore. "Our ideas there are really very long term, so we don't have any specific ideas right now," Van der Schaaf said, adding that there were no specific targets for geographical spread. "We want to have a spread over different cycles and different products, but we don't have a specific philosophy of wanting such a percentage in Asia or in Europe and so on."   "That depends on developments and opportunities," Van der Schaaf added. On the banking side, where the group continued to perform well, it is still looking for an acquisition in the Netherlands. "In the Netherlands we clearly need to grow. We see several possibilities there, by acquisition if possible, but there has to be a bank which meets the criteria and which is prepared to be acquired," Van der Schaaf said. The outlook for the remainder of the year was positive, Van der Schaaf said, hence the decision to raise the forecast for 1996 earnings per share growth to seven percent.   "The first half was really better than expected. Not just in one line; that actually applies to all lines, with the exception of accident and health, but that was forecast," she added. -- John Sanders, Reuters Insurance News, +44 171 542 2769