Daimler-Benz AG said on Thursday it had no plans to demerge its loss-making aerospace division DASA, adding that the unit was on track to becoming profitable again in two years time. "We will not spin off DASA into a ... listed company and I hope I don't have to wait until 1999 before they make a profit," chairman Juergen Schrempp told reporters here. Chief financial officer Manfred Gentz told Reuters Financial Television that DASA's important aircraft business would be profitable in 1998 as planned. "We will achieve that target," he said. "We are under way."   DASA, which last year embarked on a massive reorganisation and dumped its money-losing Dutch aircraft maker Fokker, trimmed its first-half operating loss to 677 million marks from 1.62 billion a year ago. "There is a lot of improvement and that is a good situation," said Gentz. Back at the news conference, Schrempp again denied that there were merger talks between British Aerospace Plc and DASA. "Seeing I am not included (in any talks) I cannot believe it is happening," he said.   Thanks to lower DASA losses and higher passenger car results, Daimler-Benz motored out of the red with a first-half net profit of 782 million marks after a 1.57 billion loss a year ago. Operating profit at Mercedes-Benz, the car and truck division, rose to 1.41 billion marks from 1.37 billion. Schrempp promised that Daimler would split the truck and car results in its annual report to meet demands for greater transparency. "When we present our annual report we will show passenger cars and commercial vehicles separately," he said.   In a move towards a clearer presentation of its overall results, Daimler reported its first-half figures according to U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. The giant German conglomerate increased its passenger car market share in Europe, especially in Germany, the U.S. and Japan and maintained its prices in real terms. While the van business performed very well, the heavy truck activities were hit by difficult market conditions especially in Europe. "The truck business is in a rather difficult position as far as market demand is concerned," Gentz said.   But he added that Mercedes-Benz trucks were in a very strong position compared with rivals after a new model was recently introduced in Europe and market share was raised in North America. -- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717