Fitch Investors Services said on Thursday it assigned an AA rating to ING Bank N.V..   Fitch said in a statement that it assigned ING Bank counterparty ratings of AA long-term and F-1 plus short-term   The statement said the ratings reflected the bank's strong balance sheet, consistent and diversified earnings and stable funding base. The affiliation with the ING Group, including the well capitalised insurance company ING Verzekeringen N.V. as well as the bank's prominence in the highly concentrated and closely regulated Dutch banking system further supported the rating. "Concerns focus on maintaining adequate systems and controls as the bank branches out in terms of both product offerings and geography, risks associated with emerging market exposures, and longer-term, margin pressures arising from increasing competition in investment banking markets worldwide," it said. It said the strength of the balance sheet was characterised by a large and growing residential mortgage portfolio, a well diversified, stable book of small- and medium-sized business loans and a high level of quality liquid assets. Although the loan portfolio had not experienced major deterioration in the recent past, asset quality had been on an improving trend since 1993 due to a more buoyant domestic economy and better monitoring systems, Fitch said. "Fitch views positively the 1995 acquisition of Barings, which substantially boosted the bank's presence in investment banking and international asset management, as it will likely reduce potential earnings volatility from future market shocks," the statement said.   Fitch said a solid capital base underpinned the bank's operations. In addition to generating its own capital through retained earnings and a recent Tier 3 debt issue, the bank had received several capital injections from the ING Group. "While management operates the insurance and banking sides of the business separately, capital injections to the bank have been possible, in part, due to the strength of the insurance operations. "Once the bank discloses its hidden reserves, additional subordinated debt issues are expected to finance continued but more subdued balance sheet growth," the statement added. -- International Bonds Unit +44 171 542 6320