Sir Colin Hope, chairman of asbestos-haunted components group T&N Plc, said on Thursday the company is continuing to look for possible insurance tools to help it limit its asbestos-linked health liabilities and free shareholder value, but that no breakthrough was imminent. Recent press speculation has centred on T&N being near to a complex policy to cap its liabilities, but Hope told the firm's interim results news conference that this was premature. "It is true that we have been looking. (But) I think that the imminence (of press reports) is misleading," he said, adding, "Don't hold your breath in terms of speed of solution."   "In a way (the speculation) is not new," Hope told reporters. "We at T&N have constantly over the years said, "Is there anything we can do on the insurance issues?'". Part of this was looking to see if there is any way of using insurance "to limit or reduce the risk of rogue cases developing -- a sort of ring-fencing on uncertain areas", he explained. "That has up to now been virtually impossible to do at any sort of economically-affordable premium. However, what has happened is that the industry position has changed, the insurance industry knows substantially more about asbestos now than it did two or three years ago," he added.   Hope said that, with more data available and a better ability to assess future liabilities from asbestos, the outlook for finding insurance options was improving. Reviews would continue and, he said, "The situation is more amenable to looking at them than it was before." Above all, he added, the firm recognised that shareholders suffered from the weight of potential asbestos liabilities. "The board's objective remains to find some way of unlocking that shareholder value which has been knocked out of T&N's shares as a result of (this) sheer uncertainty."   Following T&N's results, which showed pretax profits falling to 58.1 million stg from 73.2 million on the back of well-signalled weaknesses, the company's shares stumbled and fell to stand down 9-1/2p at 134-1/2p by midday. -- Andrew Huddart, London Newsroom, +44 171 542 8716