Household products and pharmaceutical group Reckitt & Coleman Plc on Thursday saw its first-half profits rise by 10 percent but share analysts remaimed cautious about the company's future prospects. "The good news is that cash generation and cost savings from restructuring are at least up to expectations, but the downside is turnover growth," said Mark Clark, an analyst at broker UBS Securities. Reckitt's made a pre-tax profit of 165 million stg, compared with 149.6 million stg for the same period last year. At the pre-tax level, however, profits fell to 179 million pounds from 316.4 million, reflecting large gains from selling businesses in the first half of 1995. The company, whose name used to be synonymous with Britain's favourite mustard, disappointed Clark and other analysts after announcing that sales growth had failed to meet expectations. Turnover from continuing operations grew by just four percent during the first half to 1.16 billion stg but the company said the prospects for delivering higher returns to shareholders were "good". Analysts remain sceptical however, noting that the company continued to face competition in both Britain and the U.S. from larger retail chains selling cheaper own-brand products. The company lost its famous mustard brand when it sold off most of its foods business last year, replacing it with U.S. group L&F Household, which it bought for one billion pounds. Reckitt's picked up some high-profile U.S. household products such as Lysol to add to its British stable of well-known brands like Lemsip, Brasso and Mr Sheen. The company hopes to clean up by adding value to its goods through higher prices on its niche brands but analysts warn that consumers are becoming price resistant. "There is no doubt that Reckitt & Coleman has some well-known brands," one analyst who wished to remain anonymous said. "But at the end of the day they are still faced with the problem of convincing people that their products are worth the extra money as more and more generics flood the market," he added. Reckitt's stated aim is to become the world leader in household products and to dominate over-the-counter pharmaceuticals. It's toilet cleaners are used in around 50 percent of American homes while its insecticide is Australia's favourite, capturing 45 percent of the market. The challenge for the group is to continue to grab more and more market share while improving margins, analysts said. Earlier this month credit rating agency Standard & Poors revised its view on the company's earning potential by changing its outlook to stable from negative. S&P expects earnings will be enhanced through cost savings from the integration of L&F - a process that Reckitt's says will be completed this year, ahead of schedule. UBS's analyst Clark remains unconvinced, however and is not changing his 12-month profits estimate. "Our full-year forecasts are right at the bottom of the range at 305 million (pounds)" he said. "I see no reason to change those forecasts on a clean basis." Reckitt & Coleman, which raised the dividend by eight percent to 7.95p, saw its shares rise up 4-1/2p to 686p by midday. -- London Newsroom +44 171 542 7717