Rich, single and seeking a fresh role, divorced Princess Diana plunged into a new life on Thursday with a defiant warning that she will stay in the limelight that helped strain her marriage to Prince Charles. Formally stripped of the title "Her Royal Highness", she made clear, with a public-relations stroke, she had never wanted to divorce the royal heir who paid an estimated 17 million pounds ($26.51 million) in a settlement. Close-up pictures on the front pages of Britain's royalty-obsessed tabloid newspapers showed Diana wearing the gold wedding band and knuckleduster-sized sapphire engagement ring that Charles bought for 28,000 pounds in 1981. The gesture made at a lunch engagement with the English National Ballet just hours after her divorce became final on Wednesday was not lost on royal photographers and commentators. Diana, a master of media manipulation, was giving a clear signal that she had been forced into a divorce she did not want and was not prepared to go quietly, they said. "It was a defiant gesture that signalled her refusal to bow out quietly and suggests this troubled royal saga is not over yet," said the Daily Express. Photographers said she made a point of walking around her car in order to give them a shot of the rings on the third finger of her left hand. In a story headlined "Diana: I'll run rings round Charles", the Daily Mirror said: "Princess Diana began her new life yesterday -- with this ringing declaration of defiance to ex-husband Charles." The Daily Telegraph said: "There was no statement from the palace but the princess's left hand told her side of the story more eloquently than any spokesman." Diana, 35, who loses the coveted "HRH" title as part of her settlement, resisted the divorce until her lawyers had persuaded Charles to pay her a reported 17 million pounds, plus the 400,000 pounds annual cost of running her private office. The princess blamed Charles for the break-up of a marriage that once thrilled the nation, pointing the finger at his long-running affair with his mistress Camilla Parker Bowles. Diana remains a popular figure with Britons, well ahead of Charles, and Parker Bowles is distinctly unpopular, according to regular polls. In her revealing television interview of November 1995, Diana said of Camilla: "There were three of us in this marriage, so it was a bit crowded." But friends said Diana, a devotee of psychotherapy and techniques of personal growth, was determined to avoid sending out any message that she was bowing to the inevitable. "She does not want to be seen as a victim, but someone in control," one friend told the Sun newspaper. Her position as the mother of Prince William, 14, who will succeed Charles as king, together with the possibility of her finding a new man mean Diana is not likely to slip out of the public eye in the near future. With the princess pictured in an elegant pale blue suit with matching shoes, Prince Charles, meanwhile, looked dull by comparison. He was shown standing glumly under an umbrella, talking to a horticultural expert. Royal pundits agree that Charles cannot expect both to make a second marriage, to Parker Bowles, and to succeed his mother Queen Elizabeth as monarch. What may now be needed from the prince is a period of hard work to restore his popularity with the people and the press. Royal author Robert Lacey said: "Image has proved a destructive pursuit for the House of Windsor in the past 15 years. Substance is what is required."