The fragile French franc bore the brunt of a rampaging German mark in Europe on Thursday as jitters over Economic and Monetary Union in the run-up to 1997 budget presentations kicked in with a vengeance. Debate over the EMU timetable and fresh question marks over efforts to meet convergence criteria have rekindled fears which had been largely soothed by a European Union show of unity. Threats of strikes in France, coupled with weak data there, have pointed up the difficulty of reconciling fiscal austerity with public resistance to the spending cuts demanded by EMU. Analysts said the pressure on the franc, which sank to five-month lows in early Europe, was unlikely to ebb before the 1997 budget was unveiled -- and maybe not even then. "The French arithmetic will add up -- but the credibility of those sums will be immediately questioned," said Stuart Thomson, chief international economist at Nikko Europe.  "The next level to focus on is 3.4305, and I think there's a very strong risk of that appearing today." The franc's early low of 3.4296 per mark -- its worst level since March 25 -- took it to within a whisker of 3.4305, its old floor in the European Exchange Rate Mechanism (ERM). French teachers' unions have warned of a likely strike over job cuts and education reforms and will meet on September 3 to finalise their position. Marc Blondel, leader of the independent Force Ouvriere union which was at the fore of last year's 24-day strike, has said "all the ingredients are there for it to explode". "The risks in attempting to straitjacket economies to meet the Maastricht convergence criteria are highlighted by threats of labour and social unrest in France following similar disturbances last year," said David Coleman, chief economist at CIBC Wood Gundy in London. Weak output and fears forthcoming July unemployment will stick at record highs have emphasised how French economic growth needs a shot in the arm if EMU criteria are to be met. Even Germany, the lynchpin of EMU, is in danger of missing the requirements on debts and deficits this year, Bundesbank chief economist Otmar Issing warned earlier in the week. But Issing signalled clearly the German central bank's continued tough line on monetary union, saying softening the convergence criteria was "out of the question". German Chancellor Helmut Kohl backed that on Wednesday, saying the single currency "must come, but there should be no feeble compromises". But market fears of a delay in monetary union -- scheduled to begin on January 1, 1999 -- have found plenty to feed on. Italy's deputy prime minister, Walter Veltroni, was quoted recently as saying Italy and other European countries should consider the possibility of re-thinking the EMU criteria. Leading German economist Herbert Hax said Europe should consider postponing the start of monetary union at least five countries and preferably more meet the conditions for joining. "All the European issues are still quite alive, and that will keep the mark firm," said Standard Chartered treasury economist Tim Fox. "It doesn't augur well for the outer-rim currencies." Mark strength was just what Germany's Bundesbank was presumed to deplore when it sliced an unexpectedly meaty 30 basis points off its key repo rate last week. While that was initially seen as a lifeline for the mark's fragile satellites, the view soon took hold that the German bank had used the cut to wash its hands of EMU and currency problems. The Bundesbank may thus have done more harm than good, forcing France and Italy in particular to look to their own governments for salvation, said Coleman at CIBC. "The convergence process -- so evident in the first half of this year -- remains very much at risk," he said.