British opposition leader Tony Blair took to the campaign trail on Thursday hit by fresh criticism of his leadership style from the left wing of his Labour party. The latest attack on Blair came from member of parliament Austin Mitchell, who accused him of paying lip service to Labour's rank and file and said the revamped party's policy-making process was no more democratic than North Korea's. Writing in the New Statesman magazine, Mitchell also praised Blair for being in better tune with the instincts of British voters than were veteran Labour activists-- a reference to New Labour's more centrist swing away from  old-style Socialism. "So we have a Faustian compact with Tony Blair, on a back me or sack me basis. Tony'll win for us. In return we've put our souls, our party and our dreams in his hands," Mitchell wrote. There is little evidence that earlier attacks on Blair over the summer by left-wingers have hurt Labour, which still enjoys a 21-point lead over the ruling Conservatives, according to an opinion poll in The Times newspaper on Thursday. But Blair's lieutenants, eager to scotch any impression of internal bickering in the run-up to an election no more than nine months away, were quick to portray Mitchell as isolated. "Mr Mitchell has said colourful eccentric things about every Labour leader since he was elected to parliament," Robin Cook, the party's foreign affairs spokesman, told BBC radio. "Of course you can find lone voices outside but the significant thing is that Tony Blair has carried the party overwhelmingly in all the major changes that have gone through." Blair, who was campaigning in Wales and northwest England, on Wednesday shrugged off personal criticism as trivial and the "flotsam and jetsam" of politics. Mitchell himself tried to blunt the impact of his article, telling the BBC he did not see Blair as a dictator. "What I was saying was that Tony Blair is a winner and in touch with the mood of the country. People like Tony Blair and he is going to lead us to victory," Mitchell said. But Prime Minister John Major's Conservatives, who must call an election by next May, tried to capitalise on the controversy as evidence of growing splits in Labour ranks. "When did you hear a Tory backbencher describe John Major as running his party like one of the most extreme dictators in the world today? That's what we have Austin Mitchell saying," Deputy Prime Minister Michael Heseltine told BBC radio.