Palm oil prices look set to fall in the closing months of the year, European vegetable oils traders said. The market is a little confused at the moment because despite weak fundamentals, prices are firm due to continuing demand from India, they said. "It seems the Indian private sector has been buying olein because domestic prices have been high and they have found they had a margin," said a trader. Traders said Indian private buyers have taken a lot of palm oil for July, August and September with some demand spilling over into early October, but the offtake will end before the local religious holiday in November. "They need the oil to arrive before then because their own vegetable oil crop comes into play around that time and that should satisfy their needs towards the end of the year," said a trader. Chinese business is unlikely to develop because palm oil prices are too high, traders said. "The only other big support for the market is Indonesia where the crop did not come on as expected and there was some delay in production," said a Singapore based trader. Indonesian July output did not materialise as expected and August was just as slow, but in the meantime the export tax came down, traders said. "Indonesian refiners were selling like hell to anyone who would care to buy, which left the domestic market short and resulted in high local prices," the Asian trader said. Traders said the Indonesian government gave the go-ahead for the import of cooking oils to cool the local market and a lot of the Indonesian houses have been buying palm oil for the domestic market from Malaysia over the last week or so. "I think they have about finished now, but this coupled with the Indian demand excited the Malaysian market," said a trader. Traders said most of the Indonesian buying had been for nearby positions and this had flushed out the shorts. "The market is looking over-bought and sooner or later the people who pushed it up will pull out. It won't crash, but prices will come back slowly," said a trader. Demand in last two months of the year will not be that good, with prices too high for China, they said. In addition, the winter season is approching and from December to March China does not normally buy olein, a hard oil, but it will be looking for soft oils. But traders do not rule out Chinese buying altogether. "If palm oil prices were to fall to a level attractive to China they would soon be in the market," said one. Indonesian demand will be satisfied because although its production was late it will continue into a peak in January, while Malaysian production peaks in October. "With Indonesia production running at a high level until January I don't think we will have the usual problems in the run-up to Ramadan," said a trader. However, traders said the U.S. market remains the wild card. "If we take everything we hear from Chicago at face value then the price of soft oils and palm oil will remain high owing to lower U.S. soybean production, but if on the other hand, as has happened many times in the past, we find the U.S. soybean crop is OK, then I would not like to be a long holder of any vegetable oil," said a trader. --London Newsroom +44 171 542 8062