A Kurdish guerrilla group in northern Iraq said on Thursday it had agreed to attend U.S.-sponsored peace talks in London with a rival Kurdish faction following a ceasefire. "The party has agreed to attend peace talks in London tomorrow to meet with U.S. officials," the Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP) said in a statement. It said the rival Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK) would also attend the talks, set for Friday. "The talks will test the seriousness of the PUK about the latest ceasefire," KDP spokesman Dilshad Miran told Reuters. He said the peace talks were aimed at preserving a ceasefire with the PUK that went into effect on Wednesday morning, through stationing monitors on the ground. PUK representatives were not immediately available for comment. The British foreign office welcomed the U.S.-brokered ceasefire and urged the two factions to respect it. "We fully support those (U.S.) efforts and have reiterated our willingness to help with a meeting in London if this would contribute towards reaching a substantive peace agreement," it said in a statement in London. A previous U.S.-brokered ceasefire last Friday was broken by sporadic fighting. The KDP said there were no reports of new clashes on Thursday, but Miran said the PUK, supported by Iranian artillery, had violated the ceasefire with an attack on Wednesday. Friday's preliminary talks are aimed at pushing forward agreements early last year which put an end to more than a year of clashes in which about 3,000 people died. Miran said it was not clear which officials would attend the talks, which were called mainly on Washington's initiative. Previous talks have centred on the distribution of oil trade revenues and the status of the city of Arbil, which is currently under PUK control. U.S., British and French planes have been patrolling the skies of northern Iraq since shortly after the Gulf War in 1991 to shield Iraq's Kurds from attack by the Baghdad government. Both Iraqi Kurd factions have expressed concern about the build-up of Iraqi troops near Kurdish regions in recent days.