Palestinians on Thursday observed the first general strike in the West Bank and Gaza in two years, largely heeding President Yasser Arafat's call for the protest against Israeli policy on settlements and Jerusalem. In a move likely to fuel Palestinian anger, Israel said it would build more homes in Jewish settlements in the West Bank. The four-hour shutdown of shops and businesses was widely observed in the West Bank, Gaza and Arab East Jerusalem, witnesses said. But a Reuters photographer in Hebron, the only Palestinian city still under Israeli control, said most shops remained open. "We are sounding an alarm and this alarm has to be taken seriously because while Israel is verbally trying to maintain the semblance of peace, it is actually on the ground stepping up its activity, escalating its violations," Palestinian Higher Education Minister (corrects title) Hanan Ashrawi told reporters. The stoppage was the first in both the West Bank and Gaza since the start of self-rule in parts of the areas in 1994. At a session of the Palestinian legislature on Wednesday, Arafat said Israel's policies amounted to a declaration of war and called a half-day general strike "for Jerusalem" in protest. Israel angered Palestinians by demolishing a community centre in Arab East Jerusalem on Tuesday, saying the structure was built without a permit. It has also pledged to expand Jewish settlement in the West Bank. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has vowed never to give up control of East Jerusalem, captured by Israel in the 1967 Middle East war. The PLO wants East Jerusalem as the capital of a Palestinian state. While the Palestinians fumed, the right-wing Netanyahu government disclosed further plans to build more housing units in West Bank settlements. "(Defence Minister Yitzhak Mordechai) approved a number of construction plans in existing settlements. These are building plans which had been approved in the past by the (Labour) government and later frozen," his spokesman Avi Benayahu said. Benayahu declined to say how many homes would be built. The Maariv newspaper put the number at 3,550. It said Israel would add 700 housing units to the settlement of Kiryat Sefer, 1,050 to Hashmonaim, 900 to a nearby Jewish seminary, 200 to Matityahu and 700 to Betar Ilit. All are just inside the West Bank, near Jerusalem. "The (government's) provocation of the Palestinians is clear," former tourism minister Uzi Baram said. "It is playing with a powder keg that puts all of us in great danger." Asked about the construction plans, Ashrawi said: "These are the real actions. We are not interested in statements of appeasement and promises in the air...The real proof is in this decision to build thousands more housing units, to confiscate more land, to expand settlements and settlement activities." The Palestinian Legislative Council demanded on Wednesday a halt to contacts with Israel until the Jewish state honoured its peace pledges. Netanyahu, responding to Arafat's strongest attack on his government since its election in May, said Israel would view as "very grave" any attempt to step up tensions or violence. Hours later gunmen shot and wounded two people on Wednesday when they fired at an Israeli commuter bus in the West Bank. In an apparent effort to quell tensions, Israel's Foreign Minister David Levy telephoned Arafat on Wednesday. "I explained that we might be entering a situation in which there is a loss of control and if, God forbid, matters deteriorate, all sides will lose," Levy said on Thursday. "I appealed to his sense of responsibility at this hour not to get carried away. He spoke about his distress, pressures and the difficult situation," he told Israel Radio. "I got a promise from him that he would make every effort...to prevent deterioration." After speaking to Arafat, Levy telephoned Jordanian Prime Minister Abdul-Karim al-Kabariti and briefed him on the conversation. Kabariti travelled to Palestinian-ruled Ramallah on Thursday to meet Arafat.