Palestinians and Israel opened a negotiating channel on Thursday following a four-hour general strike in the West Bank and Gaza against Israeli policy on settlements and Jerusalem. A day after Yasser Arafat accused Israel of declaring war on the Palestinians, Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's confidant Yitzhak Molho, a lawyer, met the Palestinian president and arranged talks between senior negotiators, PLO officials said. The negotiators, former Israeli army chief Dan Shomron and Palestinian Local Government Minister Saeb Erekat, met for an hour in a Jerusalem hotel and said the Steering Committee they chair would begin to convene regularly as of next week. The committee, which oversees implementation of Israel-Palestinian self-rule deals, has not met since Netanyahu was elected last May. "Our role as a steering committee is to solve problems and to continue the peace process, to do this in a good spirit," Shomron told reporters. "I believe after this meeting that we have the ability to advance all the issues that today are found at different levels of implementation," he said. Foremost among the unsettled issues is Israel's long-delayed troop redeployment in the West Bank city of Hebron, where some 450 Jewish settlers live among more than 100,000 Palestinians. "The peace process will be judged not in accordance with press conferences given by us but through the implementation of agreements on the ground," Erekat said. "It is not a secret that the status of peace is slipping like sand outside our fingers." Shops and businesses shut for four hours across the West Bank and Gaza, as well as Israeli-annexed Arab East Jerusalem, in response to a strike call by Arafat. He condemned at a meeting of the Palestinian legislature on Wednesday the Netanyahu government's pledge to expand Jewish settlement and its insistence that East Jerusalem will remain forever under Israeli control. The PLO wants East Jerusalem as the capital of a future Palestinian state. The strike was the first in both the West Bank and Gaza since Israel handed parts of the areas to Palestinian self-rule in 1994. Residents said the stoppage was widely observed but a Reuters photographer in Hebron said most shops in the city, still under Israeli guns, remained open. In a move likely to fuel further Palestinian anger, Israel on Thursday disclosed more plans to build additional homes in Jewish settlements in the West Bank. "(Defence Minister Yitzhak Mordechai) approved a number of construction plans in existing settlements. These are building plans which had been approved in the past by the (Labour) government and later frozen," his spokesman Avi Benayahu said. Benayahu declined to say how many homes would be built. The Maariv newspaper put the number at 3,550. It said Israel would add 700 housing units to the settlement of Kiryat Sefer, 1,050 to Hashmonaim, 900 to a nearby Jewish seminary, 200 to Matityahu and 700 to Betar Ilit. All are just inside the West Bank, near Jerusalem. Commenting on the decision to build privately funded homes in settlements, former tourism minister Uzi Baram said: "The (government's) provocation of the Palestinians is clear. It is playing with a powder keg that puts all of us in danger." Palestinian Higher Education Minister Hanan Ashrawi told reporters Palestinians were not interested in Israeli "promises in the air". "The real proof (of Israel's intentions) is in this decision to build thousands more housing units, to confiscate more land, to expand settlements and settlement activities," she said. In Ramallah in the West Bank, Arafat held talks with Jordanian Prime Minister Abdul-Karim al-Kabariti. "We informed the president that we do not accept any analysis that calls for continuing settlement expansion and at the same time to say the peace process is all right," Kabariti told reporters.