Palestinians planned to take their grievances to the negotiating table with Israel on Thursday following a four-hour general strike against Israeli policy on settlements and Jerusalem. A day after Yasser Arafat accused Israel of declaring war on the Palestinians, a spokesman for Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said in a surprise announcement that two senior negotiatiors would meet at 1130 GMT in a Jerusalem hotel. Israeli army chief Dan Shomron and Palestinian Local Government Minister Saeb Erekat chair the Israeli-Palestinian Steering Committee that oversees implementation of the self-rule deals signed by Israel and the PLO. "We hope this meeting will result in the immediate reciprocal implementation of...the agreements signed," Erekat told reporters. "We hope very soon that words will be transferred to deeds." Shops and businesses shut for four hours across the West Bank and Gaza, as well as Israeli-annexed Arab East Jerusalem, in response to a strike call by Palestinian President Arafat. He condemned at a meeting of the Palestinian legislature on Wednesday the Netanyahu government's pledge to expand Jewish settlement and its insistence that East Jerusalem will remain forever under Israeli control. The PLO wants East Jerusalem as the capital of a future Palestinian state. The strike was the first in both the West Bank and Gaza since Israel handed parts of the areas to self-rule in 1994. Residents said the stoppage was widely observed but a Reuters photographer in Hebron said most shops in the city, still under Israeli guns, remained open. In a move likely to fuel further Palestinian anger, Israel disclosed more plans to build additional homes in Jewish settlements in the West Bank. "(Defence Minister Yitzhak Mordechai) approved a number of construction plans in existing settlements. These are building plans which had been approved in the past by the (Labour) government and later frozen," his spokesman Avi Benayahu said. Benayahu declined to say how many homes would be built. The Maariv newspaper put the number at 3,550. It said Israel would add 700 housing units to the settlement of Kiryat Sefer, 1,050 to Hashmonaim, 900 to a nearby Jewish seminary, 200 to Matityahu and 700 to Betar Ilit. All are just inside the West Bank, near Jerusalem. The Steering Committee talks are likely to focus on Israel's long-delayed troop redeployment in the West Bank city of Hebron, where some 450 armed Jewish settlers live among more than 100,000 Arabs. Palestinians view the partial pullout as a litmus test of Netanyahu's pledges to pursue peace. Israel's former Labour government delayed the move after Moslem suicide bombers killed 59 people in the Jewish state in February and March. Netanyahu's government is studying a revised pullback plan prepared by Mordechai which is expected to outline a wider deployment of Israeli troops in the city to protect the settlers. Palestinians said they would not accept any changes. Commenting on the decision to build privately funded homes in settlements, former tourism minister Uzi Baram said: "The (government's) provocation of the Palestinians is clear. It is playing with a powder keg that puts all of us in danger." Palestinian Higher Education Minister Hanan Ashrawi said Palestinians were not interested in "promises in the air" from Israel. "The real proof (of Israel's intentions) is in this decision to build thousands more housing units, to confiscate more land, to expand settlements and settlement activities," she told reporters. In Ramallah, Arafat held talks with Jordanian Prime Minister Abdul-Karim al-Kabariti on the peace process.