Controversial U.S. Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan has arrived in Libya and thanked Libyans for naming him winner of a human rights prize worth $250,000, the official Libyan news agency JANA said on Thursday. The U.S. Treasury Department in Washington on Wednesday denied Farrakhan's application to receive the honorarium or $1 billion Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi had pledged to the Nation of Islam after meeting Farrakhan in Libya last January. JANA, monitored in Tunis, said Farrakhan arrived on Wednesday evening in the Libyan capital Tripoli where he was welcomed by Libyan officials. "I would like to thank the people of Jamahiriya (Libya) and our brother Colonel Muammar Gaddafi and also the jury which decided to award me this year's Gaddafi international human rights prize," JANA quoted Farrakhan as saying on arrival. The prize would be presented in a ceremony on Friday, according to JANA. Farrakhan was apparently already on his way to the Libyan capital when the Treasury decision was announced and it was not immediately known how it might affect his plans. Richard Newcomb, director of the U.S. Treasury branch that oversees travel and trade restrictions against U.S. citizens dealing with Libya, had cited among reasons for the denial the belief that Libya was "a strong supporter of terrorist groups". Farrakhan organised last October's Million Man March in the United States that brought thousands of black men to Washington for a peaceful rally. On Tuesday he said he would fight any U.S. government effort to deny him the Libyan funds, which he said would be used to build schools and business in American black communities. But the Treasury said that after consulting the State Department that it was turning down Farrakhan's applications because of long-standing grievances with the Libyan government and because U.S. law prohibited acceptance of the funds. The Treasury said Libya had been on Washington's list of states that sponsor international "terrorism" since December 1979, and noted that Libya refused to turn over two Libyan suspects in the 1988 bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland. That refusal led to the imposition of U.N. sanctions against Libya.