Turkish cotton traders welcomed the publication on Thursday of rules for a proposed futures exchange over which two government institutions are vying for control. "This is an important step towards the full operation of the exchange," said Hasan Ozmen, head of the Izmir Trade Bourse (ITB) which masterminded the Izmir Futures Mercantile Exchange in the early 1990s. "A legal vacuum is now filled with the regulation and the operation of the exchange is now closer," he told Reuters. Turkey's Capital Markets Board (SPK), the government watchdog for securities operations, and the ITB have been at odds over control of the exchange. The industry ministry, which prepared the regulation published in the Official Gazette, sided with the ITB in the dispute. But shortly after news of the regulation, which takes effect immediately, the head of the SPK said in a statement that the board would appeal to the supreme court to have the regulation cancelled. "The right to prepare legislation and regulation on such markets lies with the Capital Markets Board according to the laws," Ali Ihsan said. "Our priority in the country is not to set up trade bourses but maintain confidence in markets and take measures to boost stability, reduce risks and protect investors." Ozmen, who played down the SPK's opposition, said the board would eventually be persuaded and would give its consent. "The exchange is a new concept for Turkey and that's why we have different views at initial stages. But conflicts will be resolved in time and the SPK will think along our lines. "The exchange is not excluding the SPK from its operations. The SPK will be part of the exchange's auditing." Karacan said many other local trade bourses in Turkey have applied to set up regional futures exchanges following the example set by the ITB. The regulation defines the operation and duties of the exchange administration, the way traders and brokers carry out transactions, and custody and settlement procedures, but it did not say when the exchange would be opened. The industry ministry, which regulates cotton production and its domestic and foreign trade, said the exchange would be opened despite opposition from the SPK, which says futures contracts to be used on the exchange are a type of security that should be controlled by the board. "The auditing of the exchange will be carried out by the industry ministry and the Capital Markets Board," the regulation said. The exchange was aimed at preventing fluctuations in local cotton prices and attracting producers and traders from nearby cotton producing countries, especially Central Asian republics. "The exchange will serve not only local producers and traders but also those from nearby countries," said Burak Ar, the exchange coordinator. "It will be opened soon and at a time when Turkey, which suffers from a widening trade deficit, is planning to boost its exports and especially textile exports," he told Reuters. Deputy Prime Minister Tansu Ciller said last week the government would give new incentives to exporters. She raised the target for total exports 1996 to $28 billion from $25 billion. Turkey is the sixth largest cotton producer in the world with an output of about 840,000 tonnes in 1995/96. The textile industry, its top money maker, exported goods, mainly ready-to-wear items, worth about $8 billion in 1995.