The shooting of a gangland boss in an Istanbul society cafe gave Turkey's racy media a welcome diversion from 11 months of dreary political and economic news. "The bloody face of the mafia!" screamed Milliyet daily on Thursday. "Dirty business" shrieked Hurriyet. "Bloody street show," said normally sedate Yeni Yuzyil above front-page pictures of bodies and a step-by-step cartoon guide to the shooting of mobster Tevfik Agansoy. Newly-widowed Hulya Agansoy grabbed her share of headlines, vowing to kill a rival mobster blamed for her husband's murder: "They will find his carcass among the rubbish," she told Yeni Yuzyil. "We will not give up chasing that queer until our race dies out." Turkish newspaper headlines have been dominated since September 1995 by monotonous wrangling and personal slanging-matches of political leaders trying to replace the collapsed coalition of then prime minister Tansu Ciller. Relieved at the change of agenda, newspapers competed for the most sensational version and blodiest pictures of the killing early on Wednesday of Agansoy and three others, including an off-duty bodyguard of Ciller, now foreign minister. Page after page of pictures, graphics, and interviews sidelined the saga of the new Islamist-led government's first steps and the latest state of Turkey's high inflation economy. The only other story that got a look-in involved claims that policemen had last month killed Turkey's "casino king", Lutfu Topal, accompanied by bloody pictures of Topal dead in his car. Television channels tripped over each other to get exclusive interviews with Hulya Agansoy or to report victorious mobile phone calls by the man suspected of masterminding the killing. "Let people leave us alone. Let it end here," he told private ATV channel. "The business is done as we said. I slept well last night for the first time," he said in Hurriyet. In his call to ATV, the gang leader -- a fugitive from the Turkish police and living abroad -- promised future "striking announcements" to brighten up the media. Trying to introduce a higher tone, some columnists tut-tutted that the incident could happen just metres (yards) from a police station in Istanbul's posh Bebek district.