Lebanon's billionaire Prime Minister Rafik al-Hariri faces a tough political battle in Beirut as he seeks to win a parliamentary seat for the first time on Sunday. The 51-year-old tycoon has been accused of using his immense wealth and power to barge into parliament and keep opponents out, so that he can have things his own way in parliament. Hariri is Lebanon's most powerful politician thanks to his reconstruction drive since 1992. He hopes to enter parliament with a 16-man list of supporters when Beirut votes on Sunday in the third round of the election -- taking all but two of the capital's 19 seats. Analysts say he wants to build a powerful electoral base that will make him a permanent political fixture in Lebanon and give him the political security he now lacks. At present, Hariri holds office by parliamentary appointment and has no seat. "Hariri is so powerful that he wants to extend his influence to electoral politics and have a big bloc of deputies in parliament," said Paul Salem, a professor at the American University of Beirut and head of a Beirut think tank. Seven Hariri supporters won seats in the first two rounds of voting. If he emerges from the five-round election which ends on September 15 with 20 supporters in the 128-member parliament he will have scored a major victory, analysts say. Nobody doubts that the affable, dynamic Hariri, who this year restored 24-hour electricity to Beirut after the 1975-90 civil war and has vastly improved roads and telephones, will easily win a seat in parliament. He has campaigned hard, addressing big crowds nightly at his palatial Beirut residence, and his posters are the biggest and most professional of the thousands plastered over the capital. But there are signs that some Beirutis resent the onslaught of power and money that Hariri represents and which they see as having distorted Lebanese democracy since the civil war. Hariri's list of candidates also appears lacklustre and some are offensive to Beirut's Sunni Moslem establishment championed by former prime minister Selim al-Hoss, Hariri's main challenger. Hoss, 66, a moderate, traditionalist politician relatively independent from Syrian influence, heads a 13-man list seeking to curb Hariri and prevent him accumulating too much power. Firebrand leftwing Christian deputy Najah Wakim, 52, who heads another eight-man list, has repeatedly accused Hariri of corruption and wants to oust him from power. Hoss rejected attempts by Syrian leaders at the start of the campaign to persuade him to form a joint list with Hariri and avert an electoral battle in the capital. Analysts say that Hoss represents a statesmanlike respect for the rule of law in the face of a group of wealthy and powerful politicians seen by many Lebanese as manipulating the system for political, economic and personal gain. Hoss has accused Hariri during the campaign of "using his power and money in a way never seen before". "Money goes into your pocket but not into your heart," says a Hoss poster in a gentle jibe at the heavy spending of Hariri's four years in office and his election campaign. Hoss has also indirectly accused Hariri of seeking to grab all power in Beirut after Hariri called him indecisive and said he had failed to represent Beirut adequately in parliament. Beirut needed a united team to represent it, Hariri said. "If Hariri wants to take it upon himself to make decisions on behalf of Beirut, this implies that he wants to eliminate all others, which Beirutis will never accept," Hoss replied.