The Beirut Stock Exchange hopes to sign a cooperation agreement next month with the Kuwaiti and Cairo stock exchanges as the first step towards cross-listing by the three markets, Beirut Stock Exchange President Gabriel Sehnaoui said on Thursday. "It is a very significant move, especially for Beirut. It is the first step towards cross-listing on the three markets," Sehnaoui told Reuters in an interview. "We are aiming at September 25 as the date for signing the agreement here in Beirut," he said. The agreement will guarantee a free flow of updated information to investors and dealers in all three markets. "This will allow investors in either Kuwait or Egypt, by just looking at their screens, to follow closely the daily activities on the Beirut bourse. It will encourage them to invest in our market," Sehnaoui said. Under the terms of the agreement, joint committees will draft adjusted regulations for the three markets in accordance with international standards. "The bourses will have to change some trading requirements and coordinate trading systems before any cross listing can take place. That is the job of the committees to be formed under the agreement," Sehnaoui said. He declined to give an estimate of when cross listing might begin. "I cannot determine the date because this will depend on the readiness of all three bourses," he said. Dealers say new products are needed on the Beirut Stock Exchange, which reopened last January after a 13-year closure, to make it attractive for cross listing. "The addition of new stocks to the market will increase liquidity and give investors the opportunity to diversify their porfolio of stocks in different sectors and industries," Alain Balian, Corporate Finance Officer at Lebanon Invest brokerage house, told Reuters. The exchange currently trades in seven shares of companies in the construction sector: Ciments Libanais, Ciments Blancs, piping manufacturer Eternit and tile maker Uniceramic. Lebanon's biggest company SOLIDERE is preparing to move its shares and from the private Beirut Secondary Market (BSM) to the official market on September 30. This will add $2 billion to the capitalisation of the stock exchange which is currently less than $400 million. "In addition to SOLIDERE, we are expecting two leading Beirut banks to list by the end of 1996, bringing the capitalisation of the market above $3 billion," Sehnaoui said. -Beirut editorial (9611) 353078 645456 602057