The United States is scrambling to regain the initiative in the fractious Kurdish regions of northern Iraq, where a second U.S.-brokered ceasefire in a week took tentative hold on Thursday. Reports from the area said the guns of the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK) and the Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP) fell silent after talks between U.S. Assistant Secretary for Near East Affairs Robert Pelletreau and PUK leader Jalal Talabani. "There were no reports of clashes and it looks as if it has been quiet," a KDP spokesman told Reuters. PUK sources confirmed a halt to the fighting. The latest ceasefire, which took effect at 04:00 GMT on Wednesday, replaced last week's shortlived deal, also arranged by Pelletreau. Peace talks have also been agreed, to take place in London on Friday. Such high-level U.S. arm-twisting of its recalcitrant partners is a long way from the grand Kurdish coalition Washington had once hoped to fashion against Iraqi President Saddam Hussein. In effect, say analysts, the years since the 1991 Gulf War and its aftermath -- when a U.S.-led air force cleaved northern Iraq from Baghdad's grasp -- has seen the West's role reduced largely to damping the fires of Kurdish factionalism. "The United States did not take sufficient initiative to push the peace process, which has helped create a power vacuum," said a Western diplomat involved in policy toward northern Iraq. "The process is further back than it was a year ago," the diplomat said. Turkish officials, who see neighbouring Iraq primarily as a breeding ground for militant Kurdish nationalism, privately admit they are likewise at a loss. "Turkey has not had a real northern Iraq policy since Turgut Ozal," said a senior foreign ministry official, who asked not to be identified, referring to the Turkish president who died in early 1993. Instead Ankara has vacillated between backing the KDP as a bulwark against its own Kurdistan Workers Party (PKK) rebels, and warming up to Saddam in the hopes of restoring once-valuable trade ties. "Turkey is displaying multiple schizophrenia in its inability to decide whether its interests lie with Baghdad or in the north," said the Western diplomat. "It is...following a non-policy in northern Iraq for fear of creating an embryonic (Kurdish) state." Left largely to their own devices, the rival Kurdish militias have continued to do what they do best -- fight for territory and money. Scores died in the latest clashes and hundreds of families were displaced by the fighting. At issue is the border trade with Turkey, worth an estimated $250,000 a day in tariffs and informal taxes, and authority over the administrative centre of Arbil. KDP control over the Habur border crossing with Turkey, giving it first shot at "taxing" Turkish traders and smugglers, has long angered PUK leaders. The latter struck back in December of 1994, seizing the Kurdish "capital". Now time appears to be running out. Turkey is increasingly reluctant to provide the main air base for Operation Provide Comfort, the U.S.-led force protecting the Kurds from Baghdad. U.S. experts wince at OPC's enormous drain on reduced military budgets. The new government of Islamist Prime Minister Necmettin Erbakan, meanwhile, has served notice it would try to pursue new policies dictated by religious and geographical ties. "The result is a 'four-way' formula to isolate the U.S. from northern Iraq," foreign policy analyst Sami Kohen wrote earlier this week. "According to this, the future of the region will be designed together with Iraq, Iran and Syria." Kohen said the plan itself was unrealistic but revealed a potential rift between Washington and Ankara. "Today the divergence of Turkey's policy from that of the U.S. is openly felt on northern Iraq," Kohen said in the daily Milliyet.