A year ago Middle East peace was the bright star on President Clinton's foreign policy horizon. Now, with the advent of a right-wing government in Israel, U.S. officials are scrambling to salvage the Israeli-Palestinian peace agreement and end the verbal salvoes between Syria and the Jewish state. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu has frozen Israeli troop withdrawals and the transfer of more power to Palestinians while pouring concrete over the West Bank in the form of Jewish settlements and roads. Palestinian President Yasser Arafat has complained to his U.S. and Arab allies that he feels cheated because Netanyahu has changed the rules of the game. In a sign of his growing frustration, Arafat reverted to the old intifada tactic of mass protest by calling a general strike in the West Bank and Gaza strip on Thursday and a march on Jerusalem for Friday. Syria's President Hafez al-Assad reacted frostily to Netanyahu's suggestion of a "Lebanon First" Israeli withdrawal and the two countries slid into a war of words this month which the United States and Egypt are working to end. In public, U.S. diplomats and officials put a positive gloss on events, saying that Netanyahu is committed to honour the previous Labour government's agreement. They put any mishandling of foreign policy down to the administration's inexperience. "You should have seen the chaos in the Clinton White House during its first year," said one U.S. source. In private, however, pessimism is seeping into their assessment of achieving the kind of regional peace which even the assassination of Yitzhak Rabin and Islamic suicide bombings in Israel did not destroy. At U.S. prompting, talks between Israel and the Palestinians on implementing the 1993 Oslo self-rule deal are due to resume on September 2. But many Palestinians believe this is just for form's sake, doubting that there can be real progress, at least before the U.S. presidential elections in November, because Clinton does not want to appear to be leaning on Netanyahu. "We don't have official negotiations now. What we have is crisis management," said Saeb Erekat, a PLO negotiator who closely reflects Arafat's thinking. "We had a peace process that was moving like a turtle before Netanyahu came to office. All that Mr Netanyahu did so far was to turn this turtle on its back," Erekat said. Netanyahu's reluctance to meet Arafat, unlike his predecessors Rabin and Shimon Peres, together with postponement of an Israeli troop redeployment in the West Bank town of Hebron has undermined Palestinians' faith in the whole Oslo process. Arafat conceded to Israeli demands to close three Palestinian offices in Arab East Jerusalem this week only to see an Israeli bulldozer flatten a community centre in the Old City which the Israeli authorities said was built illegally. This prompted Arafat to call the strike and accuse Netanyahu of declaring war on Palestinians. "The peace process is dead," says political analyst and Oslo critic, Ali Jirbawi. "The accord is bad but the Palestinian Authority is trying to hang in there. Really they have no alternative," he said. Arafat staked all his political capital on Oslo, hoping that he could use the loosely structured process to bring about a Palestinian state. Netanyahu is opposed to full Palestinian statehood and now appears to be turning the accord's vagueness to his advantage, Palestinians say. Oslo put off talks about the thorniest issues -- settlements, refugees, Jerusalem -- while partial self-rule in most of the West Bank and Gaza was implemented. But that first phase is not complete, prompting Palestinian fears that Netanyahu will wrest more concessions from them before allowing second-phase talks where his negotiators will argue over every comma and full stop. Analysts like Jirbawi believe the best Arafat can hope for is some kind of statehood in Gaza  -- no Israeli leader seems to want to reoccupy the impoverished strip of Mediterranean coast -- coupled with limited Palestinian authority in the West Bank with Israel retaining control of security and resources, such as land and water. While U.S. officials hope that some kind of compromise can be worked out on the Palestinian track, they acknowledge that Syria will accept nothing less than the return of the entire Golan Heights before it makes peace with Israel, something Netanyahu has ruled out. Unlike Arafat, Assad is not in a hurry. Talks were slow even under the Labour government. Those negotiations took place against the backdrop of a U.S. non-paper (a document signed by neither side) which showed Israeli willingness to withdraw to the pre-1967 Middle East war frontier, Israeli sources said. "Even if talks were to resume in Washington for appearances, they would get nowhere," an Israeli familiar with previous negotiations said. "Both sides are starting from completely different assumptions." In an attempt to ease recent tension, Netanyahu asked U.S. Republican Senator Arlen Specter to take a private message to Assad. Specter said on Thursday in Jerusalem after his visit that he hope talks would resume, but added: "President Assad said he was not prepared to sit down with Prime Minister Netanyahu at this state of the record, that he did not see hope for peace or realism for peace based on what Mr Netanyahu had been saying."