Radical Palestinian leaders urged Palestinian President Yasser Arafat to end his peace negotiations with Israel in response to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu's settlement policies. Maher al-Taher, spokesman of the Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) led by George Habash, said Arafat's call for a general strike which was observed in the West Bank and Gaza on Thursday was not an adequate response to the right-wing Israeli government. "Arafat should stop all negotiations with Israel if he is serious about confronting Netanyahu's settlement policies in the occupied Palestinian lands," Taher said. "We fear that Arafat might be trying to calm down the Palestinian people who were dismayed by the actions of Netanyahu. Arafat should stop giving concessions to the Jews if he wants to meet the real demands of the Palestinians." Arafat issued the strike call on Wednesday, saying the Israeli government had declared war on the Palestinians through its decision to expand settlements and its uncompromising stand on the future of Jerusalem. Hours after Arafat's statement gunmen fired at an Israeli commuter bus in the West Bank, wounding two people. Palestinian sources in Damascus said the attackers belonged to the PFLP. There was no official statement from the PFLP in the Syrian capital. The Palestinian Legislative Council on Wednesday demanded a halt to contacts with Israel until the Jewish state honoured its peace pledges. A spokesman for Netanyahu said former Israeli army chief Dan Shomron and Palestinian Local Government Minister Saeb Erekat would meet at a Jerusalem hotel on Thursday afternoon. Nayef Hawatmeh, head of the Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP), said in a statement: "His (Netanyahu's) settlement policies shows that he wants war and not peace." Khaled al-Fahoum, head of the Palestinian National Salvation Front, weclomed the Palestinian legislators' call for ending talks with Israel. "I hope that arafat responds positively and stops begging Netanyahu and the Israeli leaders," he said. "We hope the Palestinian people will launch a new uprising in the West Bank and Gaza in particular because the Israeli leaders do not understand the language of appeals and begging."