Iraq accused Iran of military aggression on Thursday and said it reserved the right to retaliate for Tehran's sending troops into Kurdish-populated regions of northern Iraq. Foreign Minister Mohammed Saeed al-Sahaf, in a statement carried by official newspapers, accused Tehran of sending troops to northern Iraq and said Baghdad "preserved the full right to retaliate". "Iran, in its pursuance of such stupid aggressive policy, would be digging its grave with its own hands, creating a dangerous precedent that will backfire on it," Sahaf said. The Kurdistan Democratic Party (KDP) of Massoud Barzani has said that Iran sent troops and military equipment into northern Iraq in support of the guerrillas of its rival, the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan (PUK) led by Jalal Talabani. PUK has charged that Baghdad shelled its areas in efforts to back KDP rebels. On Wednesday it said Baghdad was massing troops near the northern Iraq's Kurdish areas which have been outside Baghdad's control since shortly after the 1991 Gulf War and are protected by U.S., French and British aircraft against possible attacks by Iraqi armed forces. Sahaf said Iran's interference constituted "a new military aggression on Iraq's sovereignty and a flagrant violation of good-neighbourliness". He chided his Iranian counterpart Ali Akbar Velayati for saying that Tehran could bring peace to northern Iraq. "Velayati's claims and allegations are naive indeed," he said. Iraq and Iran fought an eight-year war which ended with a U.N.-brokered ceasefire in 1988. Iranian soldiers briefly entered northern Iraq last month to strike at Iranian Kurdish guerrillas based there. An Iranian Kurdish rebel group said last week Tehran had sent more troops into northern Iraq in preparation for a fresh assault. Fighting between PUK and KDP broke out in mid-August. A KDP spokesman told Reuters in Turkey that a new U.S.-brokered ceasefire with PUK which came into effect early on Thursday appeared to be holding. A smiliar U.S.-sponsored truce last week failed to stop the fighting.