By Alan Elsner, Political Correspondent President Bill Clinton made a triumphal entry to Chicago on Wednesday as his running mate Al Gore cast the 1996 election as a battle between the future and a past represented by Republican Bob Dole. Addressing the Democratic convention, Gore began by calling Dole a "good and decent man" and praised his service in World War II, but he swiftly launched a double-fisted attack on the man from Kansas. "Make no mistake: there is a profound difference in outlook between the president and the man who seeks his office," Gore declared. "In his speech from (the Republican convention in) San Diego, Senator Dole offered himself as a bridge to the past. Tonight Bill Clinton and I offer ourselves as a bridge to the future," he said to cheers. "Let there be no doubt:the future lies with the party of hope -- and the man from Hope who leads it," said Gore, referring to Clinton's birthplace of Hope, Arkansas. Clinton, Gore said, "never stooped to their level. And of course, he never attacked his opponent's wife." First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton has been a frequent Republican target. The president himself completed a barnstorming 559-mile (895 km) train trip on Wednesday that has helped him build a formidable lead in the opinion polls over Dole. "Seventy days to four more years!" an exuberant Clinton shouted to a knot of waving spectators near Kalamazoo as his flag-bedecked, 13-car campaign train swept through Michigan. Huge crowds welcomed Clinton at every stop as the president cut a swathe through five Midwestern states, issuing new policy initiatives along the way. After leaving the train in Michigan City, Indiana, Clinton flew to Chicago by helicopter, landing on a baseball field crowded with hundreds of well-wishers including wife Hillary and daughter Chelsea as a full moon crept over the horizon. "When I accept the nomination of our party tomorrow and start this campaign, it will be the first American campaign for the 21st century and the last campaign for Bill Clinton," the president told the crowd. "Let me just say the best is yet to come, the best days for America, the best days of the Clinton-Gore administration, the best days of our efforts together to lift up our country and move forward," he said. Three new polls on Wednesday put the president's advantage over Dole at a comfortable 13 to 15 percentage points and Clinton is hoping for a further boost from the final two days of the Democratic convention. As day three of the convention began, delegates at the convention centre were pumped up with excitement after two days of political speeches punctuated, by shimmying to the Latin beat of the Macarena dance craze, and regular video updates of Clinton's progress across the heartland. Delegates were to formally nominate Clinton for a second White House term late on Wednesday in the traditional roll call of states. Contrary to expectations, Clinton would not visit the convention Wednesday. Spokesman Mike McCurry said he planned to stay in his hotel, rest his voice, which was hoarse after four days on the stump, and work on his acceptance speech. Clinton will formally accept the nomination on Thursday and delegates were readying the kind of welcome usually reserved for pop idols and sports heroes. Clinton, 50, is the first Democratic incumbent since Franklin Roosevelt to win his party's nomination without facing an internal party challenge. In Dole, he faces a 73-year-old opponent who would be the oldest man ever to take office for a first term if he won the November 5 election. That makes the election a fascinating contest between Clinton, the first baby boomer to reach the White House, and Dole, almost certainly the last stalwart of the World War II generation to seek the presidency. For all the doubts about his character and the scandals that have dogged his presidency, Clinton enjoys approval ratings as high as any president seeking re-election in recent memory. His dominance over the Democratic Party is undisputed. Even leaders of the party's once all-powerful liberal wing have fallen meekly into line as Clinton dragged them towards the political centre.