United and brimming with boisterous confidence, U.S. Democrats nominated President Bill Clinton for a second term on Wednesday, portraying him as America's "bridge to the future" and his Republican rival Bob Dole as a man mired in the past. Democrats at their party convention roared approval for a two-fisted assault on Dole by Vice President Al Gore, who dismissed the 73-year-old former Kansas senator as a "good and decent" fellow but "a bridge to the past" and a barrier to progress. Then, with Clinton watching on television from his Chicago hotel suite, they went through the traditional ritual in which U.S. parties nominate their White House candidates by a roll-call vote of the 50 state delegations. The proceedings were engineered so the delegation from Ohio -- a key swing state Clinton needs in the November 5 general election --  had the honour of casting the votes that gave him the 2,145 majority necessary for nomination. Ohio has gone Republican in most post-war presidential elections, but it narrowly backed Clinton in 1992 and helped him defeat incumbent president George Bush. The cavernous convention hall rocked to the celebrations of revelling delegates when the nomination was formally achieved. They sang, danced and chanted "Four more years!" High above them, a gigantic tv showed Clinton, smiling and clapping as he watched the proceedings from his hotel room. In the convention hall Hillary and Chelsea Clinton embraced as they stared back at Clinton's image. They and every Democrat in the hall, whipped into fighting fettle by three-days of red-meat oratory like Gore's, were clearly confident Clinton can break a 60-year jinx. No Democrat has been voted to a second four-year White House term since Franklin Roosevelt in 1936. All that remained was for Clinton to launch his two-month re-election drive with a televised acceptance speech closing out the convention on Thursday night. Just as Republicans felt pleased they had given Dole and running-mate Jack Kemp a strong boost at their convention in San Diego, Democrats say Clinton has bounced back and armed himself with the perfect theme -- the future versus the past -- to polish off his rival. Polls suggest there are grounds for their optimism. Three surveys released on Wednesday said Dole's post-convention surge was ebbing. Clinton -- profiting from four days of TV coverage of his whistle-stop train trip to Chicago, where he arrived on Wednesday -- has rebuilt leads of from 13 to 15 points over Dole. The 50-year-old president, invigorated by his track-side rallies, took the lead in setting a futuristic campaign theme that has the added advantage of underscoring his youth and Dole's age. "When I accept the nomination of our party tomorrow and start this campaign, it will be the first American campaign for the 21st century and the last campaign for Bill Clinton," he told a crowd that greeted him upon arrival in Chicago. "The best is yet to come, the best days for America, the best days of the Clinton-Gore administration, the best days of our efforts together to lift up our country and move forward." In his speech warming up Democrats for their nomination vote, Gore cast all subtlety aside and ripped into Dole with broadsides that belied Democratic predictions he would stress lofty themes. "Senator Bob Dole is a good and decent man. We honour his service to America and his personal courage in fighting back from injuries sustained in (World War II) battle," Gore said. "But make no mistake: there is a profound difference in outlook between the president and the man who seeks his office. In his speech from San Diego, Senator Dole offered himself as a bridge to the past. Tonight Bill Clinton and I offer ourselves as a bridge to the future." Gore described Dole as a leader of "the party of memory" while he and Clinton led "the party of hope," then blasted Dole for voting against a series of popular bills Democrats had backed: Medicare and Medicaid health insurance, the Clean Air Act, the Peace Corps, "even ... the funds to send a man to the moon." He added a personal dig by saying Clinton "never attacked his opponents wife." Dole has ridiculed Mrs Clinton's book on child-rearing, "It Takes a Village," as a misguided socialist notion.