The economy boomed ahead more robustly than previously thought during the second quarter, the Commerce Department said Thursday, growing at its fastest rate in two years. The nation's gross domestic product expanded at a 4.8 percent annual rate in the three months from April through June instead of 4.2 percent as estimated a month ago. The surprisingly strong surge in economic growth during the spring was likely to fuel doubts that a predicted second-half slowdown will occur soon enough to deter the Federal Reserve from hiking interest rates later this year. "It shows the economy was very strong in the second quarter," said Gary Thayer, senior economist at AG Edwards and Sons Inc. "If the economy is slowing down from this 4.8 percent annual rate, it would have to slow down quite a bit just to be back to normal. "I mean 4.8 percent is nearly double the average rate of growth for GDP," he added. The second-quarter GDP growth was more than double the 2 percent rate of expansion recorded in the first quarter this year. It was the strongest for any three months since the second quarter of 1994, when GDP grew at a 4.9 percent annual rate. GDP measures the value of all goods and services produced by workers and capital within U.S. borders. Wall Street economists had forecast no change in the previously estimated 4.2 percent rate of second-quarter GDP growth rather than a big upward revision. The inflation-sensitive U.S. Treasury market fell after the report, with the benchmark 30-year bond off 11/32, or $3.4375 per $1,000 face value. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, climbed above the 7 percent level, to 7.1 percent from 6.98 Wednesday. The department said several factors accounted for the stronger growth, including a smaller drag on the economy from huge trade imbalances with the rest of the world because imports were not as strong as originally thought. Imports increased at a 9.4 percent annual rate in the second quarter rather than a 12.9 percent rate as estimated a month ago. In addition, investment in producers' durable equipment grew at a 6 percent annual rate in the second quarter, nearly double the previously estimated 3.2 percent gain. There also was more investment in expanding plants and adding new production equipment than the government had previously estimated and stronger spending by the government itself on goods and services. Inventories were leaner heading into the second half than originally thought. The department said businesses added to their stocks of unsold goods at a $7.2 billion annual rate between April and June instead of a $10.3 billion rate as it thought a month ago. The combination of increased business investment and smaller inventories suggests more room for companies to boost their output in the second half. "Given that final sales were revised up and inventories were revised down, it does suggest to me that we should see more strength in the third quarter than people had been expecting," said Evelina Tainer, chief economist at Indosuez Carr Futures. A possible restraint is that consumer spending in the second quarter was not as strong as first estimated. Personal consumption spending grew at a 3.4 percent annual rate rather than a 3.7 percent rate, the department said. Strong job growth and income gains this year have generally buoyed consumer demand. So far there is little indication of sharp slowing in the overall economy during the third quarter as sales of existing homes eased only slightly in July and consumer confidence hit a six-year high in August. Despite strong growth in the spring, there was little sign in either of the two inflation measures in the GDP report that prices were heating up. The implicit price deflator advanced at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the first quarter -- the same as estimated a month ago -- down from a 2.2 percent increase in the first quarter. The fixed-weights measure of price changes rose at a 2.2 percent rate instead of 2.1 percent, still down from the first quarter's 2.3 percent rate of increase.