An abnormal flow of corn from the southern United States into the Midwest has caused a swift and severe drop in prices farmers receive for their grain. As the corn harvest moves north, analysts expect a continued slide in those prices. In the past five business days, corn basis bids at Decatur, Ill., fell 70 cents to 40 cents over Chicago Board of Trade September futures from 110 over. In Cedar Rapids, Iowa, bids fell 90 cents to 38 over CBOT September from 128 over.   In a normal year, corn flows south out of the U.S. Midwest into livestock and export markets in the southeast and southwest. But this year isn't normal. A bountiful harvest in the south and extremely short supplies in the north has corn flowing into the Midwest, wreaking havoc with cash prices. "It is extremely unusual for any grain to move north," said Diana Klemme, vice president at grain marketing consultant, Grain Services Corp.   The poor 1995 Midwest corn harvest and huge export and livestock use virtually emptied grain elevators from Iowa to Ohio. Now, corn processors and feed mixers are scouting Missouri, Arkansas, Mississippi, and the Carolinas for corn. "Nobody in recent history...has had to deal with a situation like this before," said Klemme. Basis bids will likely remain under pressure as the corn harvest moves north, with cutting expected in extreme southern Illinois next week.   "I think we will continue stairstepping it down," said Jay Fitzgerald, a grain merchandising consultant with Advance Trading Inc, of corn basis bids. Fitzgerald said corn is flowing from Mississippi into Iowa and Illinois and from the Carolinas into the poultry areas on the Delmarva peninsula. Midwest processors are buying only enough to satisfy their needs until the Midwest harvest begins, he said. Harvest was under way in the bootheel of Missouri, where bountiful yields of 150 bushels per acre were reported from dryland fields.   "There is going to be some pretty good corn down here," said Mike Milam, a University of Missouri extension agronomy specialist in Dunklin County in Missouri' bootheel. Because of increased acreage and expected better yields, the U.S. Agriculture Department estimates Missouri will harvest 309.40 million bushels versus 149.94 million in 1995. The Mississippi harvest was 27 percent done as of Sunday, with sources reporting average to above-average yields. Instances of yields exceeding 200 bushels per acre were reported in northwest Mississippi, but the county average for irrigated acreage may be near 150, said Charles Estess, the Coahoma County extension agent in northwest Mississippi. Because of high corn prices this past year and greater planting flexibility under government farm programs, Mississippi farmers planted more corn. The U.S. Agriculture Department has estimated Mississippi will harvest 56.73 million bushels versus 26.125 million in 1995. --312-408-8720--