By Alan Elsner, Political Correspondent President Bill Clinton made a triumphal entry into Chicago on Wednesday, exuding energy and optimism from a barnstorming 559-mile (895 km) train trip that has helped build a formidable lead over Republican Bob Dole. "Seventy days to four more years!" an exuberant Clinton shouted to a knot of waving spectators near Kalamazoo as his flag-bedecked, 13-car campaign train swept through Michigan.The election is on November 5. Huge crowds welcomed Clinton at every stop as the president cut a swathe through five Midwestern states, issuing new policy initiatives along the way. After leaving the train in Michigan City, Indiana, Clinton flew to Chicago by helicopter, landing on a baseball field crowded with hundreds of well-wishers including wife Hillary and daughter Chelsea as a full moon crept over the horizon. "When I accept the nomination of our party tomorrow and start this campaign, it will be the first American campaign for the 21st century and the last campaign for Bill Clinton," the president told the crowd. "Let me just say the best is yet to come, the best days for America, the best days of the Clinton-Gore administration, the best days of our efforts together to lift up our country and move forward," he said. Three new polls on Wednesday put the president's advantage over Dole at a comfortable 13 to 15 percentage points and Clinton is hoping for a further boost from the final two days of the Democratic convention. The polls also showed support collapsing for Texan billionaire Ross Perot, running as the candidate of a new party which he created. As day three of the convention began, delegates were pumped up with excitement after two days of political speeches, punctuated by shimmying to the Latin beat of the Macarena dance craze, and regular video updates of Clinton's progress across the heartland. Topping the speakers' list on Wednesday was Vice President Al Gore. Then, after nominating speeches, delegates will formally choose Clinton for a second White House term in the traditional roll call of states. Contrary to expectations, Clinton would not visit the convention on Wednesday. Spokesman Mike McCurry said he planned to stay in his hotel, rest his voice which was hoarse after four days on the stump, and work on his acceptance speech which is still not finished. Clinton will formally accept the nomination on Thursday and delegates were readying the kind of welcome usually reserved for pop idols and sports heroes. Clinton, 50, is the first Democratic incumbent since Franklin Roosevelt to win his party's nomination without facing an internal party challenge. In Dole, he faces a 73-year-old opponent who would be the oldest man ever to take office for a first term if he won the November 5 election. That makes it a fascinating contest between Clinton, the first baby boomer to reach the White House, and Dole, almost certainly the last stalwart of the World War II generation to seek the presidency. For all the doubts about his character and the scandals that have dogged his presidency, Clinton enjoys approval ratings as high as any president seeking re-election in recent memory. His dominance over the Democratic Party is undisputed. Even leaders of the party's once all-powerful liberal wing have fallen meekly into line as Clinton dragged them towards the political centre. The past four days have been a formidable demonstration of the powers of incumbency as Clinton announced initiatives on law and order, education and the environment. But they have also showcased the president's unrivalled "people skills." He has charmed old ladies, sweet talked children, and provided residents of many small towns with the thrill of their lives. In Michigan City, Clinton told a cheering crowd he had "Loved every mile of the track (and) all the people I have seen." Aides said he might take to the tracks again during the campaign.