A discussion here on fighting inflation among central bankers and prominent economists from around the world comes at an important juncture for the Federal Reserve. As officials from the U.S. central bank gather for the Kansas City Fed's annual monetary policy symposium, a debate is brewing about how aggressive the Fed should be in combating inflation. "The Fed is rather badly divided," said economist James Annable of First National Bank of Chicago. "One of the issues is the goal of zero inflation and the question of how you should get there." The debate is occuring at a time when inflation has been hovering below three percent for four straight years -- the best performance the U.S. economy has sustained since the 1960's. However, after a surge in growth this spring, policy makers on the central bank's Federal Open Market Committee fear that if the momentum continues, inflation might pick up.   Thursday, the Commerce Department revised its estimate of second quarter gross domestic product growth upwards to a brisk 4.8 percent from the 4.2 percent it estimated in July, more than double the 2.0 percent seen in the first quarter and the strongest performance since 1994 Q2's 4.9 percent. As the prospect of continued momentum looms, splits have arisen about the longer-term approach to fighting inflation. On the one hand, Annable said, some FOMC members, including both voting and non-voting members, believe the Fed should be trying to push inflation steadily lower until it is effectively non-existent. In the other camp are policy makers who advocate a more passive approach that involves attempting to hold inflation steady at the current moderate level and then allowing it to decline naturally when the inevitable hits. Many experts believe that the latter approach, dubbed "opportunistic disinflation" in a Fed paper this summer, has guided the thinking of the majority of FOMC members recently. "I have the impression that the dominant theme in policy is opportunistic disinflation," said Bill Cheney, chief economist at John Hancock Financial Services Inc. "I don't think (most at the Fed) really feel the need to squeeze out further gains on inflation at this stage." Yet even if that view is dominant, it is by no means shared by all FOMC members. The minutes of the July 2-3 FOMC meeting showed that at that gathering, Gary Stern, president of the Minneapolis Fed and a voting FOMC member, dissented from the majority decision to leave interest rates steady. Stern favored a rate rise based not only on concern that strong growth might incite higher inflation but also because he felt the Fed should try to take advantage of the opportunity to reduce inflation further. A number of central bank observers believe Stern's views are shared by some other regional Fed bank presidents who are not currently voting members of the FOMC. Stern and other ardent advocates of eradicating inflation argue that without the distortions produced by price rises, the economy would function much more smoothly.   That rationale was the impetus behind a bill introduced in Congress last year by Sen. Connie Mack, a Republican of Florida, that would change the Fed's mandate to focus solely on price stability. Currently, the central bank has a dual mandate of fighting inflation and promoting full employment. While the Mack bill has enjoyed considerable support at the Fed, some economists disagree with the premise that fully eradicating inflation would be good for the economy. A study by three Brooking Institution scholars -- George Akerloff, George Perry and William Dickens -- argues that zero inflation could cause a permanent rise in the unemployment rate of a full percentage point or more. The article has sparked discussion at the Fed, but experts said it would probably take further evidence to sway most policy makers. Still, Cheney of John Hancock said the research calls into question the idea that achieving zero inflation should be "some sort of holy grail." Former Fed Gov. John LaWare, now with the Boston firm Associated Industries, agreed that mild inflation should not be a major concern.   "I think inflation at something like two percent would be a reasonable kind of policy target," he said. "If we stay in the range of two to three percent, I don't think it should set off alarm bells at the Federal Open Market Committee."