With a promise that America's best days are yet to come, President Bill Clinton accepts his party's White House nomination on Thursday with a speech designed to both rally Democrats for a tough election battle and convince Americans he should lead the country into the 21st century. His speech brings to a close a four-day Democratic convention in which a party that loves to fight itself united behind the 50-year-old Clinton, who seemed headed for political oblivion only two years ago. Now leading his Republican opponent, Bob Dole, by up to 15 points in the polls, Clinton watched his re-nomination from a Chicago hotel suite while aides fretted that his four-day campaigning train trip to the convention had taken too much time away from preparing his acceptance speech. Clinton arrived in Chicago, hoarse and full of good cheer. He gave a hint of the theme of his speech when he told a cheering crowd: "When I accept the nomination of our party tomorrow and start this campaign, it will be the first American campaign for the 21st century ... "Let me just say the best is yet to come, the best days for America, the best days of the Clinton-Gore administration, the best days of our efforts together to lift up our country and move forward." White House spokesman Mike McCurry said Clinton plans to stay in his hotel most of Thursday and work on his speech. "He has still got a lot of work to do. He had a great time on the trip but I think everyone agreed that it was not exactly an easy four days," McCurry said. Instead of working on his speech during the trip, aides said the gregarious Clinton kept hopping up to look at people along the way, making phone calls and watching bits of the convention on television. White House political affairs director Doug Sosnik said Clinton's speech is "an opportunity for us to build on what we've been doing for the last 3 1/2 years but more importantly now as we move closer to the election, it is to focus on where the president wants to lead the country into the next century." Clinton late on Wednesday night became the first Democratic incumbent since Franklin Roosevelt to win re-nomination without a bruising internal party challenge that could have weakened him in the general election. The traditional nomination roll call of states was a good-humoured, optimistic, flag-waving affair that followed an evening of adoring praise for Clinton from speaker after speaker, coupled with razor sharp attacks on Dole and the Republicans. Vice President Al Gore led the attack, calling Dole "a bridge to the past" who blocked progress while Clinton was the bridge to the future. It was a speech laying down the the Democratic themes for the last 69 days of what party leaders on both sides expect to be a gruelling, bitter election battle. Republicans have already signalled they will paint Clinton as a man of dubious character and shifting positions -- a man whose word cannot be believed. But Gore portrayed the 73-year-old Dole as yesterday's naysayer. "We remember. We remember that he voted against the creation of Medicare. Against the creation of Medicaid. Against the Clean Air Act. Against Head Start. Against the Peace Corps in the Sixties, and AmeriCorps in the Nineties. He even voted against the funds to send a man to the moon," Gore declared. Then he mocked Dole's Republican convention boast that he was the country's most optimistic man. "If he's the most optimistic man in America, I'd hate to see the pessimists," Gore said. He presented a list of what he said were the achievements on which he and Clinton would run for re-election: "Ten million new jobs. A deficit cut in half. A smaller, leaner reinvented government working better and costing less. Unemployment and inflation both down. Record exports. Wages on the rise. An economy moving forward."