By Rich Miller, Economics Correspondent U.S. Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin questioned Europe's headlong drive to meet tough fiscal targets for establishment of a single currency in 1999 and said it was unclear whether Germany and France would resume solid economic growth any time soon. "There is real question about growth in Germany and France," he told Reuters in an interview. Speaking during the Democratic Party national convention, Rubin also reiterated his support for a strong dollar and his opposition to using the U.S. currency as a trade tool to gain competitive advantage on world markets. "We have to become competitive through productivity, not through a weak currency, because if you use a weak currency it damages you in many other ways," Rubin said. He argued that the surge in U.S. exports during recent years had more to do with underlying U.S. competitiveness than with the weakness of the dollar during President Clinton's first few years in office. "The dollar has improved a fair bit over the last year," he added. But the performance of U.S. exports also depends in part on the strength of the overseas markets that American producers are trying to sell into. Japan's economy has started to improve after a long period of slow growth, Rubin said. The Japanese government has taken the appropriate steps to spur its economy but needs to be watchful to ensure that the expansion stays on track, he added. In Europe, the picture is not nearly so good. While Rubin does not expect Germany and France to fall into recession, he does have real questions about the outlook for their economies. "The question is, 'Will they resume solid growth or won't they?'," Rubin said. "It seems to me that it's very unclear at this time." Germany and France are striving to meet tough fiscal criteria set out for participation in the launch of a single currency in 1999 at a time when their economies are lagging. Asked if Europe's headlong drive for European Monetary Union with its tough economic targets was aggravating the situation, Rubin replied, "That's the right question. "Our strategy has been to get the deficit down and by getting the deficit down get interest rates down," Rubin said. "The problem is that you've got to phase this in in the right way. "If you go too quickly on the deficit reduction you have so much of a drag you can overwhelm the interest effect," he continued. "I don't how it's going to balance out, but obviously that's something they have got to be very focused on." Under the Maastricht treaty for establishment of the EMU, participating nations are required to reduce their budget deficits to the equivalent of three percent of gross domestic product or below.