Baxter International Inc said on Thursday its deal to acquire Austria's Immuno International AG over three years was worth about $715 million. Earlier, Baxter and Immuno said in a joint statement from Zurich their boards had agreed to cooperate in a worldwide strategic link worth about 850 million Swiss francs. The transaction will require the approval of European and American cartell authorities, the firms said. Immuno is a leading European manufacturer of biopharmaceutical products.   "The transaction has a value of approximately $715 million. The alliance will require approval of anti-trust authorities in Europe and the United States," the statement said. The union is expected to create a leading provider of products and services for transfusion medicine, including biopharmaceuticals. The companies had combined 1995 sales of $1.6 billion and have 8,900 employees around the world. "We expect this transaction to be non-dilutive in 1997," said Harry Kraemer, senior vice president and chief financial officer of Baxter.   Terms of the definitive agreement call for Baxter to purchase from the controlling shareholders of Immuno 162,000 bearer shares and 870,000 registered shares, representing 54 percent of the voting interest and 37 percent of the capital interest respectively of the company. For shares purchased from the controlling shareholders, Baxter will pay 850 Swiss francs in cash for each bearer share and 141.67 Swiss francs in cash for each registered share. An additional sum per share will be held back to provide for Immuno's existing contingent liabilities. Shortly after this initial transaction, Baxter will commence a cash tender for all publicly traded bearer shares -- 14 percent of the voting interest and 33 percent of the capital interest -- for 900 Swiss francs per share in cash. Baxter will acquire all of the remaining shares of Immuno within three years after the first closing.  The future share purchase price is fixed at 1,025 Swiss francs per bearer share and 170.83 Swiss francs per registered share in cash with the same hold-back to provide for Immuno's existing contingent liabilities. -- New York newsroom, (212) 859-1610