Latin Americans of Japanese descent who say they were forcibly shipped to internment camps in the United States during the Second World War sued the U.S. government on Wednesday seeking an apology and compensation. Three plaintiffs filed the lawsuit in U.S. District Court in Los Angeles against the United States, Attorney General Janet Reno and other U.S. officials, civil rights lawyers representing them said. The lawsuit said more than 2,000 people of Japanese descent were deported from various Latin American countries during the Second World War and forcibly brought to the United States where they were imprisoned in internment camps. The lawsuit said the unstated purpose of the programme, which it said was financed and directed by the U.S. government, was to use the internees for prisoner exchanges with Japan. U.S. officials have acknowledged that the abductions occurred, according to press reports. The civil rights lawyers want the suit declared a class-action that would seek redress for all of the Latin American internees still alive. The Civil Liberties Act of 1988 provides for an apology and compensation to Japanese Americans interned during the war. In 1990 the Justice Department began giving letters of apology and $20,000 to 60,000 surviving Japanese American internees. But the law excluded from eligibility people who, at the time of their relocation or internment, were not citizens or permanent residents of the United States. The lawsuit, filed by the American Civil Liberties Union and other civil rights lawyers, maintained that this exclusion violated the Latin American internees' constitutional right to equal protection as well as international law. "There's no way to make this out as a fair law," said Paul Mills, one of the attorneys for the plaintiffs. "First the U.S. comes up with a scheme to basically kidnap people for use as human bargaining chips. We decide we'll use people who aren't U.S. citizens, because they have no voice here. Then Congress renews that injustice by denying them an apology or restitution, again because they weren't U.S. citizens. That has to be changed," Mills said. One of the named plaintiffs was Carmen Mochizuki, 64, a U.S. citizen and resident of Los Angeles County. Mochizuki was a citizen of Peru and was living there with her family in 1943 when she was transported without her consent or any legal justification to the United States, the lawsuit said. There she was imprisoned until December 1945 in an Immigration and Naturalisation Service detention camp in Crystal City, Texas, it said. Mochizuki applied for redress under the Civil Liberties Act of 1988 but received a letter of denial, the suit said. The suit asked the court to order the U.S. government to make the Latin Americans eligible for an apology and compensation under the Civil Liberties Act. A Justice Department spokesman was not immediately available to comment.