Former football star O.J. Simpson on Wednesday used the pulpit of a jam-packed Washington church to attack the media for erroneous reporting on his case and indicated that he planned to sue some media outlets. Simpson, found not guilty by a criminal trial jury last October of the murders of his former wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend, Ronald Goldman, in June 1994, said little about the civil lawsuit brought by families of the victims, who allege he was responsible for their deaths. The judge in that trial has ordered a wide-ranging gag order that prohibits lawyers, witnesses and parties to the case from discussing it with the media or elsewhere in public. But Simpson repeatedly attacked the media for fabricating "untruths" about his life and said he and his attorneys had constructed "a little hit list" of media groups that would be targeted for legal action after the civil trial was over. In one case, "we are almost in a can't-lose situation," Simpson said, without giving any further details. He did mention one report by Barbara Walters of ABC-TV about Simpson's financial difficulties, in which she cited problems with his employers Hertz and NBC, as well as his $50,000 a year alimony. But he said he later told Walters she was wrong on all three counts, only to hear her excuse that she was merely reading a text on her teleprompter. He also cited reports that he and model Paula Barbieri were en route to the Dominican Republican to marry, noting he was in bed in his home in Los Angeles at the time and found it curious he had not been invited to his own wedding. "I'm wondering, they can say just about anything," Simpson told the supportive crowd of 2,000 who paid $10 a head to hear the former star running back for the Buffalo Bills professional football club and a member of the Football Hall of Fame. "The question I have is, Who's watching the media? They have to be held responsible," Simpson said. Simpson was invited to the event by a group called Black Attorneys for Justice and the Scripture Cathedral Church and the crowd in the church was wildly supportive, showering Simpson with gifts and choruses of praise. Outside, dozens of protesters from the D.C. Coalition Against Domestic Violence called for the church to support victims of domestic violence instead. One reporter from CBS-TV asked Simpson a question, only to have one of the organisers, Malik Shabazz, respond by saying the microphone was intended for black members of the audience and not members of the media.