Vice President Al Gore on Wednesday hailed President Bill Clinton as a bridge to the future, consigning his rival Bob Dole to history as a block to progress who even opposed sending a man to the moon. Despite describing the Republican leader as a "good and decent" man to be honoured for his Second World War heroism and courage in fighting back from injury, Gore issued a powerful broadside to contrast Dole with the "optimist" Clinton. Dole was offering himself "as a bridge to the past," Gore declared to cheers at the Democratic National Committee that will formally nominate Clinton for president. "Tonight Bill Clinton and I offer ourselves as a bridge to the future," he said. The vice president moved many in the cavernous hall to tears when he recounted the death of his sister from lung cancer after a lifetime of smoking. He used her case to illustrate the need for tough curbs on smoking by children proposed by Clinton. "Three thousand young people will start smoking tomorrow. One thousand of them will die a death not unlike my sister's," he said, his words ringing out as the delegates fell silent. He said he would "pour my heart and soul into protecting children from the dangers of smoking." In one of the most pointed political attacks on Dole by the Clinton camp so far at the convention, Gore declared: "Make no mistake: there is a profound difference in outlook between the president and the man who seeks his office." "Time and again, Americans have seen the need for change and have taken the initiative to bring that change to life," Gore said. "But always with a struggle. Always there were opponents. Senator Dole was there." Gore went on: "We remember. We remember that he voted against the creation of Medicare. Against the creation of Medicaid. Against the Clean Air Act. Against Head Start. Against the Peace Corps in the Sixties, and AmeriCorps in the Nineties. He even voted against the funds to send a man to the moon." Referring to a claim by Dole during his nomination speech that he was the most optimistic man in America, Gore added: "If he's the most optimistic man in America, I'd hate to see the pessimists." Gore, who will be renominated for vice president on Thursday night, presented a litany of what he said were achievements of the Clinton presidency: "Ten million new jobs. A deficit cut in half. A smaller, leaner reinvented government working better and costing less. Unemployment and inflation both down. Record exports. Wages on the rise. An economy moving forward." "Democrats are proud. Our hopes are alive. And America is strong. Bill Clinton's leadership is paying off," he said. Gore condemned Dole for the budget plan that Dole, then Senate leader, and House of Representatives Speaker Newt Gingrich "tried to slip past the American people" last year. "They passed their reckless plan, and demanded that President Clinton sign it. They shut the government down. Twice," Gore said. "They thought Bill Clinton would buckle under the pressure, cave in to their demands." "But they did not know the true measure of this man. He never flinched or wavered. He never stooped to their level," Gore said. And in a reference to attacks by Dole and other Republicans on first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton, he added: "And of course, he never stooped to attack his opponent's wife."