Archaeologists may be closing in on the final piece of proof needed to authenticate the first fort built as a permanent English settlement at Jamestown, the group that owns the property said on Wednesday. For two years, archaeologists have been digging at a patch of ground along the James River trying to follow what appears to be the remains of a wooden palisade, according to the Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities (APVA). Centimetre after centimetre of soil has been sifted, yielding 90,000 artifacts, many of them dating to 1601 and indicating researchers were on the right trail, APVA spokesman Tim Kolly said. Jamestown was the first permanent English settlement in North America and slavery was also instituted there. The discovery of a bastion, or corner, that would enable archaeologists to trace the outline of the entire fort would clinch the discovery, Kolly said. "We hope we'll find something in the next few weeks to prove that the fort has been located," added William Kelso, project director. "We've just accumulated little bits of the puzzle." Still, the organisation was confident enough of the find to plan a September 12 announcement by Virginia Governor George Allen. Dennis Blanton, co-director of the Centre for Archaeological Research at the College of William and Mary, said a finding that the remains of a wooden palisade wall along the riverbank was the remnant of the 1607 fort first built by Captain John Smith and the earliest New World settlers from Europe would mark a milestone in American archaeology. "If they have it, it's a world-class discovery," he said. "It deserves any attention it gets. But 'if' is the key word." Since the dig started archaeologists have eagerly shared their progress, exhibiting crucial pieces such as copper coins stamped "1601" and other artifacts. For years, most archaeologists thought the last traces of the fort had been swept away by erosion along the James River. Bly Straube, curator of the Jamestown Rediscovery project, said the dig site continues to yield items of interest, but no definitive artifact has been unearthed. "I'd like to say we've found something to say 'John Smith was here,' but we don't have it," Straube said.