By Rich Miller, Economics Correspondent The Clinton administration delivered a blunt warning to Japan on Wednesday -- don't expect any let-up in U.S. pressure for more open Japanese markets if the president is re-elected in November. "Let me be adamant about one thing," Commerce Secretary Mickey Kantor said. "I don't envisage the day when we can back down from putting bilateral pressure on Japan to open their market." With their country's trade surplus with the United States and the rest of the world steadily shrinking, Japanese bureaucrats have been hoping to avoid further direct trade conflict with Washington and shift any disputes between the two nations to multilateral groups like the World Trade Organisation. But administration officials in Chicago for the Democratic National Convention made clear in interviews with Reuters that they see things differently. While the United States has made progress in opening up Japan's markets to more imports, now is not the time for Washington to rest on its laurels, Kantor said. "We just can't let up," he said. "It is the most visible situation to the American public which appears to be unbalanced." Clinton, who will formally accept his party's nomination for the presidency on Thursday, was leading Republican rival Bob Dole in the opinion polls with about little more than two months to go until the Nov. 5 election. Since Clinton first took office 3 1/2 years ago, the United States and Japan have struck 21 separate trade agreements. "We've made good progress there," Kantor said. "But that's not the end of the story. There are still sectors where we don't have fair access. There will be a need for some more agreements." He declined to say what sectors that might be. Laura Tyson, who heads Clinton's National Economic Council, said that breaking down trade barriers and promoting U.S. exports would remain a top priority in Clinton's second term as part of a broader programme to spur economic growth. "Japan and China in particular will continue to be priorities," she said. Those are the two countries with the biggest trade surpluses with the United States. The U.S. trade deficit with China was $3.33 billion in June, topping the shortfall for Japan for the first time. The U.S.-Japan gap was $3.24 billion.