New York, Aug 28 Reuter - Comparing the possible post-election New Zealand political scene to troubled Turkey, a leading international economist has warned of economic "disaster" if a left wing coalition takes power in Wellington. David Hale, a global analyst with Zurich Kemper Investments Inc in Chicago, said there was widespread concern in international markets that New Zealand's lavishly praised economic reforms would come to an abrupt halt if the ruling National Party were dumped by the electorate in October.   "And the big question is whether a three-party coalition of left wing parties is a possibility," Hale said in an interview. "Some believe it is, with the likelihood of (NZ First leader) Winston Peters taking over as Prime Minister," he said. "I can tell you that makes for a very nervous bond market." The New Zealand government has gone to great lengths to reassure international markets there would not be fundamental change even if there was a new prime minister appointed after the October 12 election.   Finance Minister Bill Birch told the New York business community in June that the basic framework of the reformed New Zealand economy would remain in place regardless of who came to power. This upcoming election is New Zealand's first under a proportional voting system called mixed member proportional (MMP), which is seen likely to deliver a coalition government. However economists remain concerned that the New Zealand political and economic scene is poised for a mini-revolution.   Recent polls have shown the three main opposition parties -- Labour, economic nationalist New Zealand First and the left-wing Alliance -- between them have 57 percent support. Support for the governing National Party had slipped to 34 percent, its lowest share of the party vote since May 1994. It is widely expected that Labour and NZ First will be able to strike a deal after the election, but a NZ First-National coalition is seen as also possible, but less likely. Hale said the Labour Party would be committing suicide and was likely to split in half if it was decided to form a coalition to form a new government.   "New Zealand is the focus of the region at the moment," he said. "If a coalition was formed they would have a very hostile personality, it's analogous to Turkey in terms of personal animosity, but they might well do it with Winston Peters as prime minister," Hale said. "If they did, you would have a real disaster for both the currency and bonds," Hale said.