Before it burst into the media spotlight in the early 1990s as the home of "grunge" music, Seattle was ruled by a handful of bands who paved the way for the commercial success of such acts as Nirvana and Pearl Jam. Without cult bands such as the Melvins and Green River, the explosion might never have happened and the charts might still be ruled by flashy groups like Poison and Warrant. During the 1980s, the Pacific Northwest was considered a cultural backwater by the music industry and was better known for logging and bad weather. Local musicians lived in a parallel universe influenced by the out-of-style hard rock of Black Sabbath, the Stooges and Black Flag. "Deep Six," a local compilation released in 1985, showcased six bands who were making waves in this hermetic environment: Green River, the Melvins, Malfunkshun, Skin Yard, Soundgarden and U-Men. Soundgarden went on to worldwide success while Green River produced members of Pearl Jam and Mudhoney. Of the other bands, only the Melvins have remained intact since then, and they have just released their 10th album, "Stag" (Mammoth/ Atlantic). The Melvins were formed in 1984 in the bleak, windswept town of Aberdeen, Washington, by Buzz Osbourne and drummer Dale Crover. Aberdeen was also the home of Nirvana, whose late leader Kurt Cobain was a Melvins fan and one-time roadie. After Nirvana found fame, he returned the favour by producing a few songs on the Melvins' 1993 major-label debut "Houdini." Like the Beatles' Liverpool, there is nothing romantic about Aberdeen, Osbourne says. "It's horrible there. It's just bad, bad news. Unemployment, boarded-up buildings, y'know?" The Melvins quickly headed to Seattle, where they laid the foundations for later bands with their "sludge rock" -- dense, heavy guitar-led metal whose plodding slowness contrasted with the prevailing trend of fast punk songs. The vocals are buried in the mix and barely decipherable. Comparisons with Black Sabbath crop up frequently but Osbourne considers those to be "one-dimensional" and not indicative of the bigger picture. "We were very much a punk rock band when we started out, trying to do something different, be an alternative band that was different rather than just plugging into something else. And I think that we succeeded at that basically." Indeed, they have been so successful at being different that they occupy a niche by themselves. The band's last few albums have sold about 70,000 copies each in the United States, surefire hits in underground terms but light years away from the mainstream definition of success. As an habitue of the avant-garde, Osbourne is frustrated that few people at his Atlantic label are on his wavelength. "I've never been into the mainstream. I'm more aware of the mainstream now than I've ever been since I was 13. When they hear our stuff, they don't get it, they don't understand it and I don't really expect them to." The Melvins did have some high-profile encounters with the mainstream this summer. They opened a few dates on the Kiss reunion tour and played the last half of the Lollapalooza roadshow. The Melvins are no longer based in Seattle. Osbourne, 32, lives in Hollywood, Crover, 28, in San Francisco, and bass player Mark Deutrom, 38, in his native England, despite having been raised in Texas. Since the band does not rehearse and tours frequently, the distance is no problem. Osbourne considers "Stag," which took 33 days to record at a modest cost of about $50,000, the band's most cohesive effort to date. After a succession of bass players including former child film star Shirley Temple Black's daughter, the Melvins have had Deutrom on board for two records. All three play guitar in the studio, but Osbourne handles the duties on stage in addition to writing and singing most of the songs. The lyrics are always the last part of the songwriting process, often nonsensical and hard for Osbourne to remember. In that regard, the Melvins do not profess to offer valuable insights on the human condition or teen angst. The first single from "Stag" is "Bar-X-The Rocking M," which Osbourne says are two types of cattle brand. The video was shot by porn director Greg Dark. The song features Walt Kibby of hip-hop band Fishbone on valve trombone, but in line with their low-tech approach the live version consists of drummer Crover approximating the sound with his lips.