The Treasury Department on Wednesday formally blocked a bid by controversial Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan to receive more than $1 billion from Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi. Treasury's Office of Foreign Assets Control denied applications for Farrakhan to receive either a $250,000 honorarium or a $1 billion pledge of funds from Libya. Richard Newcomb, director of the Treasury branch that oversees travel and trade restrictions against U.S. citizens' dealing with Libya, cited among reasons for the denial the belief that Libya was "a strong supporter of terrorist groups." Gaddafi pledged $1 billion to the Nation of Islam after meeting Farrakhan in Libya last January. At a Tuesday news conference in Chicago, Farrakhan said he planned to return to Tripoli to receive an additional $250,000 humanitarian award that Gaddafi gives annually. Farrakhan said he would fight any U.S. government effort to deny him the Libyan funds, which he said would be used to build schools and business in American black communities. But Treasury said that after consulting with the State Department, it was turning down Farrakhan's applications because of longstanding grievances with the Libyan regime and because U.S. law prohibited accepting it. "United States foreign policy has consistently sought the international isolation of the Libyan regime for a number of reasons," Treasury said. It said Libya has been on a list of states that sponsor international terrorism since December 1979, and noted that Libya refused to turn over two Libyan suspects in the 1988 bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland. That refusal led to the imposition of United Nations sanctions against Libya. The White House had signaled on Tuesday that a denial of Farrakhan's license application was likely. White House spokesman Mike McCurry, traveling with President Bill Clinton, told reporters that "we would expect American citizens to honor their obligations under U.S. law, which prohibits economic transactions involving the government of Libya that are not sanctioned by licenses issued through the Treasury Department." Farrakhan was the organizer of last October's Million Man March, which brought thousands of black men to Washington for a peaceful rally. But he drew more attention during a lengthy tour early this year that included stops in Libya, Iran and Iraq -- all states that the United States considers sponsors of terrorism. Farrakhan's trip drew widespread criticism and sparked congressional hearings into it.