Germany's federal deficit will overshoot its target by as much as 15 billion marks this year, coalition sources said on Thursday, an acute embarrassment for Bonn in the run-up to the single European currency. The 1996 deficit would be at least 70 billion marks ($47.39 billion) in 1996 and could run as high as 75 billion marks, well above the budgeted 60 billion marks, the sources said. Finance Minister Theo Waigel had until yesterday insisted that 60 billion was achieveable, but the new estimate is closer to the 80 billion marks the opposition Social Democrats have been predicting for some time. The new figures cast doubt on Waigel's claims that Chancellor Helmut Kohl's planned austerity package will reduce the deficit sufficiently next year to ensure Germany makes the grade for European economic and monetary union. The sources said higher-than-expected outlays for unemployment benefits due to the economic slowdown at the start of the year were the main reason for the higher deficit figure. Tax revenues were also running lower than budgeted due to the higher unemployment, they said. Sources at the Federal Labour Office, which pays unemployment benefit, confirmed this. The said the Office expected to have a deficit of 11 to 12 billion marks this year, seven billion marks more than the government had budgeted for. Waigel had originally allowed for a deficit of 4.3 billion marks this year at the labour office, which the federal government is obliged to cover. He has already acknowledged that the Office would need more than this, however. On Wednesday the finance ministry finally admitted what many had known for some time -- that the deficit would exceed the planned 60 billion marks. It said any calculation of the full-year deficit was impossible, however, as tax revenues and spending develop at different paces during the year. Bonn is also banking on an economic recovery in the second half of the year to help improve its fortunes. The DIW economic research institute on Wednesday estimated the deficit would reach about 76 billion marks this year. The opposition Social Democrats said the deficit reached 57 billion in the first seven months of the year and would hit around 80 billion by year's end. The hapless Waigel was forced to admit earlier this year that the 1995 total public deficit -- including that of states, local councils and social security funds -- jumped to 3.6 percent of gross domestic product from 2.6 percent in 1994. Until the start of this year, Waigel insisted the figure would be below three percent of GDP, the level required for those wishing to join the single European currency in 1999. Bonn is embarking on a programme of drastic spending cuts for next year to ensure it gets the deficit down to below three percent of GDP in 1997 -- the year on which suitability for EMU will be judged. Waigel says the spending cuts, combined with recovering economic growth, will be enough to reduce the deficit to around 2.5 percent next year. But with his earlier prediction of around 3.5 percent for this year now looking unachievable, financial markets are bound to look hard as his budget figures for next year in the run up to EMU, just as they are for neighbouring France. ($1=1.4770 Mark)