Dayton Hudson Corp. said Wednesday it agreed to sell four Marshall Field's stores in Texas to Federated Department Stores Inc. and Saks Holdings Inc. to focus more closely on overhauling stores in the Midwest. Minneapolis-based Dayton Hudson, the nation's fourth-largest retailer, did not disclose the value of the deal. The transaction is expected to result in a slight gain in the fourth quarter, it said. Federated, parent of Bloomingdale's, Macy's, Rich's and Stern's department stores, has agreed to buy one Marshall Field's store in San Antonio. Saks would acquire the other three, one in Dallas and two in Houston. The deal does not signal a decision by Dayton Hudson to sell off its department stores, which have suffered years of stagnant sales and flat or declining profits, the company said. "We remain committed to the department store division," company Chairman Bob Ulrich said in a statement. "The sale of our four Texas Marshall Field's stores allows the department store division to focus its resources in its core Midwest markets where we have a strong presence," he said. Except for the four Texas sites, the company's department store division -- including Dayton's, Hudson's and Marshall Field's outlets -- are all located in the upper Midwest. Dayton Hudson also is parent of Target, the discount store chain, and Mervyn's, a mid-level department store. "This signals a retrenchment to a more familiar and somewhat less competitive market," said analyst Saul Yaari of Piper Jaffray Inc. "It just didn't make sense to operate down there (in Texas)." The four stores in Texas had $120 million in revenue and were profitable, Dayton Hudson said. Dayton Hudson acquired the four stores when it bought Marshall Field's from Batus Inc., a unit of BAT Industries Inc., in 1990. Since the acquisition, shoppers have complained that Dayton Hudson tarnished Marshall Field's image. They said the chain was run more like a discount store than an exclusive department store. During the last year, Dayton Hudson launched a restructuring of its department stores that included $20 million in cost cuts. It is trying to elevate the chain's image by carrying pricier merchandise, scaling back clearance sales and beefing up customer service. Last year, profit at the department stores fell to $184 million from $270 million a year earlier. Revenues were flat at about $3.2 billion. Earlier this month, Dayton Hudson said its earnings rose to $101 million, or $0.42 a share, in the second quarter, from $28.0 million, or $0.11 a share, a year earlier. But profits at the department stores fell to $10 million from $24 million. Cincinnati-based Federated said it plans to remodel the Marshall Field's store in San Antonio and reopen it as a Macy's outlet next April. Saks, based in New York, said its agreement to purchase the three Marshall Field's stores will close Dec. 30.