Thousands of farmers blockaded roads across France overnight, checking lorries suspected of importing non-European Union beef in a surprise protest at falling prices following the mad cow crisis. Farmers had threatened an "incendiary" end to the summer holidays and this show of force was the first in a wave of social unrest expected to target the austerity-minded government in coming weeks. The FNSEA farmers' union, which mobilised demonstrators by mobile phone and fax in complete secrecy, said about 15,000 farmers erected blockades on main roads and at motorway toll gates in many areas to carry out spot checks on cargoes. The main quarry were trucks carrying imports from Britain or from outside the European Union -- especially cheap imports from eastern Europe, which breeders say have helped force beef prices down by a third in recent months. "I'm very happy with today's mobilisation. The aim of the checks is to ensure that both producers and consumers benefit from complete openness on the origin of meat," FNSEA head Luc Guyau told Europe-1 radio. "We will be inflexible," he said. A union spokesman said virtually all the blockades had been dismantled by mid-morning. More than 2,000 lorries were searched and a dozen had suspect cargoes. "There will be more union operations in the next few days if the calls for help are not heard," said a union statement which demanded urgent compensation and reform of the beef market. On the Franco-Belgian border, one Dutch driver who resisted orders to have his load searched had the tyres of his lorry punctured. His cargo was handed over to local customs officials. In the Lozere region, farmers who stopped a truck found frozen meat among more than 500 kg (1,100 lb) of frozen fish. The blockades coincided with surprise protests called in a host of towns, on the eve of a European Union meeting on how to counter the mad cow crisis. In Laval, farmers unloaded veal in the streets. Protesters occupied the offices of the prefecture (local government authority) in the Creuse region. Near Grenoble, 100 farmers occupied a slaughterhouse at Hieres sur Amby and found a truck carrying carcasses of unspecified origin. In southern Rodez, some 600 breeders entered supermarkets to check the origin of meat. Agriculture Minister Philippe Vasseur acknowledged the breeders' "distress and disarray". He added: "They must be reassured. We'll do what we have to do to ensure they are compensated for their losses and to safeguard their future". Vienne breeders who marched their cows to Paris will walk into the courtyard of the presidential Elysee palace on Friday. Jacques Chirac, who started out as an agriculture minister defending farmers' interests in the EU, will receive them. European beef sales plunged after Britain announced the discovery of a likely link between bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), or mad cow disease, and its fatal human equivalent Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD). Marc Blondel, leader of the Force Ouvriere union, warned that social conflicts in the autumn could be worse than last year's crippling public sector strikes over welfare reform. "This risks happening outside the control of the unions. More a sort of 'Poujadism'," he said, referring to a popular 1950s political uprising led by grocer Jean-Pierre Poujade. Chirac, chairing his first post-holiday cabinet meeting on Wednesday, urged his ministers to "get yourselves together" and exude optimism to help snap France out of doldrums fuelled by record unemployment, planned spending cuts and layoffs.