An international organisation overseeing Bosnia's first post-war general election appealed on Thursday to refugees in Germany -- the largest group outside former Yugoslavia -- to ignore calls for a poll boycott. "We think it's a shame that some parties are calling for a boycott," said Jens Grimm, spokesman for the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) election bureau in Bonn. "We believe these elections are both important and justified and we don't believe any political solution will be achieved more easily by a boycott," Grimm told Reuters at the OSCE's depot for processing postal votes from refugees in Germany. The depot, at a location in western Germany kept secret for security reasons, has been set up to collect and scan the ballot papers of 130,000 Bosnians who have registered for a postal vote ahead of the September 14 elections. OSCE officials said it was too early to say if the boycott calls, spearheaded by Bosnian President Alija Izetbegovic's ruling Moslem nationalist Party of Democratic Action (SDA), had influenced refugees in Germany. The SDA and two other parties issued the boycott call after the OSCE on Tuesday postponed municipal elections because of numerous problems including registration irregularities but allowed the other polls set for the same day to go ahead. Only a few dozen ballot papers from Bosnians in Germany trickled in on the first day of postal voting on Wednesday but around 2,000 envelopes arrived at the depot on Thursday. Moslem parties have accused the Bosnian Serbs of encouraging their refugees to register for constituencies that had been "cleansed" of their Moslem majorities in the war in a bid to secure political control of areas they had won by force. Aware that feelings are running high over the election and that a bomb or arson attack on their depot could smash a fragile peace process to smithereens, the OSCE in Germany is taking no chances with security. The envelopes containing the postal votes are x-rayed by security officials before they even reach the depot. Each envelope has a unique registration number and bar code. A laser scanner at the depot reads each one and rejects an envelope if it has come across the number before to prevent multiple voting. Inside each envelope is a smaller one containing the ballot papers for the elections. These are separated and sealed with a sticker to prevent any tampering. They are then stored at another secret location before being transported to Bosnia for counting on election night. "We've had to develop everything very quickly," said the manager of the depot, whose identity could not be revealed. "Our biggest problem is time pressure."