A Russian airliner carrying 129 passengers and a crew of 12 crashed on Norway's remote Arctic island of Spitzbergen on Thursday, rescue officials said. NTB said the wreck of the Vnukovo Airlines Tupolev 154 had been found between the Helvetia and Opera mountains 10 km (six miles) east of Longyearbyen, the only airport on the island. "We have established there has been a plane crash," spokesman Finn Bjoernar Hansen at the north Norway Bodoe rescue centre told Norwegian radio. "That is all we know for now. We have started an extensive rescue operation. We have made contact with Russian authorities through the Foreign Ministry in Oslo for a Russian contact person to be made available on Spitzbergen." The flight from Moscow had been due to arrive at around 10.15 a.m. (0815 GMT) but flight officials lost contact with the jet shortly before it was due to land. Wreckage was spotted about an hour and a half later. The flight path in and out of Longyearbyen takes planes along a narrow fjord and jets fly below the height of surrounding hilltops. Weather in the area was bad on Thursday with low cloud cover, officials said. A hospital on the Norwegian mainland at Tromso -- one hour's plane ride away -- was put on full alert. NTB said three Norwegian helicopters, two Russian helicopters and an aircraft were searching for the missing flight on the barren island. It said no distress signals had been received from the aircraft. Spokesman Finn Bjoernar Hansen at the Bodoe centre told Norwegian radio. "We know nothing about what has happened to the passengers. "The flight probably had something to do with the Russian coal mining at Spitzbergen," he said. Russia runs a coal mine near the town of Barentsburg under an agreement dating back to the 1920s which granted Norway sovereignty over Spitzbergen. Longyearbyen, also an open cast coal mining centre, is the only other community on the island. The two villages are linked by boat in summer and by snow scooter in winter. At such latitudes winter will already have started to close in.