The European Commission said on Thursday it would study scientific reports saying Britain's mad cow epidemic would die out by 2001 but offered little prospect the findings would change an agreed slaughter campaign. "Obviously we are interested in this research. We will ask the scientific and veterinary committee to examine it," Commission spokesman Gerard Kiely told Reuters. But he added that new research into the dynamics of the bovine spongiform encephalopathy (BSE), a fatal brain-wasting disease suffered by cattle, was unlikely to alter a slaughter plan agreed by Britain and its 14 EU partners. "We agreed that following detailed scientific analysis using a methodology which would take out the maximum number of BSE cases possible. I think it would be very difficult to sell to the European Commission a programme which would involve the elimination of fewer BSE cases," Kiely said. "We have always avoided the question of numbers of animals to be slaughtered, that's not the issue. The issue is the protection of consumers' health and the rapid eradication of BSE," he added. Separately, Kiely told reporters the scientific and veterinary committee would review on September 6 findings that were announced earlier this month that mad cow disease can be passed from cows to their calves. He said the committee could decide that a "wider, more selective cull" was needed, but could equally decide that the present plan was adequate. "We'll see where we go after we have the opinion of the scientific and veterinary committee," he said. "(It) may well say everything is fine, there's no need to do any more." The Commission's reaction to the latest findings is likely to disappoint British farmers, who seized on research by Oxford scientists in the scientific journal Nature saying it would be hard to get rid of the disease any faster than 2001 without killing vast numbers of cattle. The researchers predicted there would be 340 new infections and 14,000 new cases of BSE before 2001. A British farmers representative called on Wednesday for an urgent meeting with ministers to discuss the report. "I hope the government will now make it clear they believe there is a better way of dealing with this issue," National Farmers Union president Sir David Naish told BBC radio. Naish said there was no need for Britain to carry out a planned cull of some 147,000 cattle to which it had reluctantly agreed to placate its European partners. The report could well reopen a damaging row between Britain and the EU, which slapped a worldwide ban on British beef after the government said there could be a link between BSE and the human form of the disease. The issue flared up in March when government scientists admitted that people could become infected with Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD) from eating BSE-infected beef.