Sniffer dogs waited in the wings on Thursday as police searching for bodies in Belgium's child sex scandal focused on the cellar of a house owned by chief suspect Marc Dutroux. The nation has been in shock since Dutroux led police on August 17 to the bodies of eight-year-old friends Melissa Russo and Julie Lejeune in the garden of another house he owns at Sars-La-Buissiere. Lorries hauled debris from the sodden site at Jumet, one of Dutroux' six houses around the southern town of Charleroi, after torrential rain forced police to abandon outdoor excavations. "Because of the weather we can no longer work out in the yard -- it's like a big swimming pool," gendarmerie spokesman Jean-Marie Boudin, told reporters. "We are going to concentrate on cleaning up the house and cellar....The aim is to empty it completely," he added. "We are still looking for bodies." The search, now in its third day, has so far been fruitless. Work also continued inside a large ramshackle shed, where investigators were digging beneath a concrete floor. "Jumet still has not delivered up its secrets," the popular daily Vers L'Avenir said in its front page headline. "The macabre searches at Jumet will continue to the finish," the Francophone paper Le Soir declared. The Jumet investigation is expected to last at least another day. In all, 11 sites will be explored in the coming days. Searches for bodies and clues have focused on teenagers An Marchal and Eefje Lambrecks, whom Dutroux, 39, has admitted kidnapping a year ago. Their fate remains unknown although police have expressed some hope they are still alive. Dutroux's accomplice Bernard Weinstein, whom he admitted killing, was found next to Julie and Melissa. Two other girls, Laetitia Delhez, 14, and Sabine Dardenne, 12, were rescued on August 15 from a dungeon in yet another of Dutroux's houses. Dutroux, a father of three, and associate Michel Lelievre have been charged with abduction and illegal imprisonment. Dutroux said Julie and Melissa, who were abducted in June 1995, starved to death early this year. He denies killing them but admits paying Weinstein and Lelievre 40,000 francs ($1,300) to kidnap them. They were buried a week ago in the city of Liege after what amounted to a state funeral amid outpourings of grief and anger. In their investigations police have so far seized up to 400 videos -- some featuring Dutroux -- children's clothing, magazines and a gun. The sordid affair has grabbed world headlines and prompted wider debate on trade in children, prostitution, paedophilia, and the role of the Internet in spreading the sickness. Belgian media reported on Thursday an unemployed man had been arrested in Flanders for trying to sell 3,000 pornographic photographs via the Internet -- one third were of children. Described as cold and manipulative, Dutroux was released 10 years early in 1992 for good behaviour from a 13-year sentence for multiple child rape, violence and illegal imprisonment. Dutroux has also been named in Bratislava as a suspect in the murder of a young Slovak woman. The Slovak office of Interpol has said he was also believed to have planned the kidnapping of at least one other Slovak woman. So far 10 people have been arrested in what has now become known as the "Dutroux Affair", including Dutroux' second wife Michelle Martin, who has been charged as an accomplice. There has been widespread anger over revelations of police bungling, and an inquiry is under way. A chief police detective has also been arrested on fraud charges, fuelling questions about a possible high-level cover-up.