Swedish forestry group SCA on Thursday reported a slump in earnings for the first half of 1996 but said improving market conditions in Europe could translate into better profits towards the end of the year. SCA's profit after financial items of 1.67 billion crowns ($252 million) for the first half signalled a 43 percent fall on the 2.95 billion crowns reported for the same period in 1995. In its interim results statement, SCA said the stronger Swedish currency had reduced profits by 260 million crowns compared with the same 1995 period. Sales for the first six months fell 14 percent to 28.68 billion crowns, with the hygiene products, packaging and graphic paper divisions all reporting lower profits. The hygiene business area, the company's largest by far, had a three percent decline in sales to 12.03 billion crowns, but SCA said turnover would have increased by seven percent but for the effects of the stronger crown. Operating profit from the division, which produces nappies, feminine hygiene products and tissues, increased by 73 percent to 1.03 billion crowns, with much of the boost coming from lower costs in the tissue product area. Sales of the packaging business area fell 24 percent to 7.94 billion crowns, with the effects of the stronger crown accounting for seven percentage points fo the fall. However, lower prices for corrugated packaging and external liner sales resulted in a slump in operating profits to 615 million crowns from 1.42 billion crowns for the first half of last year. Looking ahead, SCA said the sharp decline in most product prices had slowed towards the end of the period, indicating that the run-down of stocks was over. Prospects for the rest of the year were reasonably bright if market expectations of a recovery in the European business cycle were fulfilled, SCA said. "This should result in a favourable market balance with subsequent price stability and, in some cases, price increases. However, there will be a delay until the fourth quarter before these effects are reflected in earnings." SCA announced on Tuesday it had reached an agreement with Kimberly-Clark of the U.S. on an exchange of operations in Britain and France. Under the deal, SCA will buy the Prudhoe mill in England, with an annual capacity of 80,000 tons. SCA said its Hygiene Paper tissue operations would have a 15 percent market share in Britain. In return, Kimberly Clark will take over SCA Molnlycke's Peaudouce brand name for baby nappies in France, SCA said. ($1=6.626 Swedish Crown)