The French government, facing labour unrest at home and investor worries abroad, pledged on Thursday to combat gloom and push through its economic reforms. Conservative Prime Minister Alain Juppe, standing firm despite attacks on his economic policies, reaffirmed France's commitment to join a single European currency. France will "meet the deadline for economic and monetary union within the criteria and the timetable," he told a meeting of French ambassadors. The franc and French stock and bond markets have been hit recently by renewed fears of serious labour unrest and doubts over France's ability to meet the Maastricht treaty targets for European Economic and Monetary Union. The franc was trading at 3.4267 per mark on Thursday afternoon, back at levels seen before interest rate cuts last week temporarily lifted the currency from its lows of mid-August. Juppe also defended France's battle to squeeze inflation out of the economy and expressed surprise at criticism of that policy. "We have in the past few years eradicated inflation," he said. "I couldn't have been more stunned to see that in the end, some are sorry," he added. "As though all over the world people are not trying to eradicate inflation because less inflation means more purchasing power and more justice," he said in a speech to French ambassadors at the foreign ministry. Juppe was responding to the latest attack on his economic policies, which came from inside his governing majority. Former finance minister Alain Madelin, in an article in daily Le Monde, said France was in a period of falling prices and that government policies would aggravate the deflation problem, leading to social disorder and political instability. Madelin, a fervent supporter of free-market economics, was sacked last August after a clash with Juppe over the speed of economic reform. The government shows no signs of softening its resolve to enact planned reforms to the country's generous welfare system and cut France's public deficit to three percent of gross domestic product, as required by Maastricht. "I am not a fan of consensus at any price," Labour and Social Affairs Minister Jacques Barrot said, defending the government's plans. "It's not now that France is making choices for the future that we should give in to discouragement, doubt, and, for some, a protest that can only be sterile," he added in an interview to be published Saturday in weekly magazine Valeurs Actuel. The ministers' comments came on the heels of a similar call on Wednesday by President Jacques Chirac. "Now that the bulk of our programme is under way, we must display a willful optimism which leads to dynamism and a winning spirit," said Chirac, back from a Riviera holiday and attending his first cabinet meeting after the summer holidays. While most analysts said they do not think this year's social unrest will be as sharp as last year's, unions have warned that government plans for deficit reduction could prompt a repeat of last autumn, when unions virtually crippled France with a 24-day strike over efforts to cut social benefits. Record unemployment, planned public spending cuts and layoffs have infuriated unions, and public anger also has been swelling over the government's handling of African immigrants evicted from a church in Paris after a two-month occupation. They were hoping to renew or gain residence rights in France. Marc Blondel, leader of the non-partisan Force Ouvriere union which was at the heart of last year's strike, has said "all the ingredients are there for it to explode".