Actor Dustin Hoffman hosted a screening of his new film "American Buffalo" at the Venice film festival on Thursday, wryly calling it "critic-proof." The festival honoured Hoffman this year with a Golden Lion prize for life achievement. The film is of a play by the same name by playwright David Mamet. "This is virtually a play on screen...an hour and 30 minutes of dialogue," Hoffman said of his performance as the low-life petty criminal "Teach". He said his record, which includes two Oscars for best actor, allowed him to pick and choose his roles, including non-commercial ventures like "American Buffalo". "This is a critic-proof movie," Hoffman joked. "If they love it we make two dollars and if they hate it we make one dollar. It's a very liberating way to work." The Oscar winner and screen wannabes shared some common ground at the festival. On the other end of the fame spectrum was a group of out-of-work actors from Los Angeles also able to choose their own roles by making their own film. The product "Swingers", which they filmed in 21 days on a budget of $250,000 from private donations, was warmly received by critics at an out-of-competition screening. "A year ago today we were in a car garage behind a house in L.A., which was our office, trying to figure out what we were going to do on our first day of shooting," co-producer Victor Simpkins told a news conference. The screenplay was written by John Favreau, who also plays a leading role in the film, based on his life in Los Angeles as a struggling actor and comedian. Much of the film is about how he and his friends, also struggling actors, get dressed up and cruise various bars, many of them seedy lounges where one is more likely to hear Frank Sinatra than the newest rock music, looking for women. Favreau's friends on whom he based the screenplay were cast to play themselves. "A lot of the time when young people make films, everyone looks very cool and acts very cool, but I wanted to show these guys going to clubs and talking about girls like they were in grade school, talking like jerks," Favreau said. Director Doug Liman brushed aside a question asking whether the film represented a "new California realism". "I think that is a too intellectual approach. We just wanted to tell a really good story," Liman said. But much to their surprise, the film has caught on and has been picked up by the major distributor Miramax and also will be shown at the Toronto Film Festival. Because of his work in "Swingers", the other lead actor in the film, Vince Vaughn, said he had won a role in Steven Spielberg's new thriller "The Lost World: Jurassic Park 2". "When John asked me to do 'Swingers' my agent had just let me go. I was at my lowest low," Vaughn said.