With his new watch, gold necklace and smart clothes Mark thought life was pretty good. Spending most days hanging around central Manila with friends, the 10-year-old Mark always had money in his pocket to buy ice cream and trinkets -- earned by selling his body to middle-aged tourists for $100 a night. "For the first time in my life I had new clothes and it was not even Christmas," Mark, now 19, told Reuters in an interview on Thursday. Mark (not his real name) plied his trade on the streets of Manila from the age of eight to 13. Now he works for a child refuge centre, Bahay Tuluyan, in Manila, trying to keep children off the street, and is a member of a youth panel at the World Congress on Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children in Stockholm this week Mark understands the trappings of prostitution. The only difference now is that instead of $100 a night, children are paid around $20. An expansion in child sex trade has come with tighter control and entrepreneurial middlemen. Mark's story is typical of a Third World child prostitute. He was the third of 12 children and each day was a struggle for his family, which lived in a shanty town area in Malate in the squalor of the sprawling Philippine capital. Mark and his brothers spent most days on the street, begging or dodging the traffic to sell cigarettes and sweets. He was introduced to the seamier side of street life at the age of eight after helping to direct a middle aged American tourist who claimed to be lost. "He said we had helped him so he would help us, be our friend, and he took us to a restaurant and bought us food," said Mark, an intelligent teenager whose round, childlike face shows no scars of the life now behind him. "We went to his hotel with him and he showed us this little swimming pool, a bath. We all got in and he started taking photos of us. He asked us to pose and we all thought it was funny. "Then we moved to the bed and he took more photos then joined us and we all played about, kissing and touching. We slept there the night. We didn't think it was wrong." A year after this first encounter Mark left home. His father had been discharged from the army, and spent most of his days at home, unemployed and bored. "My father would beat us. He would put me and my brothers in sacks, tie us from the roof and beat us," Mark said. "I ran away from home and lived in the street. "One day I saw a group of children in a park in central Manila, dressed well and with lots of money. I started talking to them and they introduced me to their friend." Mark said his life took a new path. With a pimp orchestrating his meetings with child sex tourists, he spent the next four years working as a prostitute, spending the money he earned on clothes, outings and trinkets. "My pimp was nice to us. He always said that he had been a prostitute but he was too old now and no one wanted him any more. He was about 23," Mark said. "But at 13 I wanted to go home. I missed my family. My pimp never came to find me. There are so many children like me in Manila. I was easily replaced." Martin Cottingham, a spokesman for Christian Aid which is working in Asia to combat child sex tourism, said authorities in the Philippines were clamping down on child sex trade. Over the past year 36 foreigners were arrested on child-sex offences. Briton Steven Mitchell in July was jailed for 17 years for having sex with two brothers, aged eight and four. "But as things clamp down in the Philippines, paedophiles are moving to new destinations like Cambodia and Vietnam where things are easier," Cottingham told Reuters.