Prime Minister Romano Prodi said on Thursday that he remained committed to the tough goals set out in the Maastricht Treaty for an EU single currency but the rest of Europe might need to grant Italy a little leeway. "(European Monetary Union) must go ahead, it must start as soon as possible," Prodi said in an interview with news magazine Panorama released ahead of publication. "If then, in agreement with our partners, special, intermediate, brief stages should have to be set up for our country... well, we can live with that." Prodi said France and Germany had "never been so convinced that it's difficult to go ahead... without Italy". But creeping doubts about the feasibility of starting EMU as planned in 1999 have swept the 15-member European Union as states struggle with recession and unemployment to meet Maastricht's tough budget deficit, debt and inflation goals. With Italy hopelessly behind on the debt target and still lagging on the other criteria, dissent at home has grown. Cesare Romiti, the powerful boss of car firm Fiat, said last week it could be worthwhile for Italy to delay joining a single currency for some time if it allowed more jobs to be created. Deputy Prime Minister Walter Veltroni also said a re-think of the timing and criteria could be needed. Prodi said the Maastricht Treaty should not be changed. "It's like when you take out a mortgage to buy a house," he said. "Maybe you go ahead and then change your mind. But what can you do, you've just got to keep paying the instalments." Italy's centre-left government must unveil its 1997 budget by the end of September and Prodi said this autumn would prove crucial to its hopes of making the grade for a single currency and of lowering interest rates "once and for all". "The autumn will be a decisive moment, a turning point and a completion of the programme," he said. Prodi has said he plans to slash 32 trillion lire ($21 billion) from the 1997 state budget, but has not yet said how. "The budget arithmetic has been worked out with two aims in mind -- the first is to go into Europe, but not with a dead country...then a secondary, but no less important goal -- reducing interest rates once and for all," Prodi said. Italy finally cut its discount rate by 0.75 point to 8.25 percent on July 24 after keeping financial markets on tenterhooks for more than a year. But Prodi said he aimed to bring Italy's rates in line with those of Germany, which at 2.5 percent for the discount rate and 4.5 percent for the Lombard rate, are near historic lows. "Obviously we have to go softly, softly... But I can't have a country always with a primary surplus but which can't invest in development or schools because there's no cash," he said. "I've got to aim for rates level with Germany's and that will give me 40-50 billion lire a year to relaunch the country." Asked when the Italian economy would pick up, Prodi said: "The most trustworthy forecasts lead us to believe that the turning point will come around the end of the year." He brushed aside talk that his coalition of ex-communists, centrists and Greens was creaking at the seams but admitted it was difficult having to rely on support from the hardline Communist Refoundation party for a majority in the lower house. But he said he had always forseen the problems and had no intention of changing strategy or the thrust of the 1997 budget.