Negotiations on a new European Union treaty are to speed up over the next few months as the bloc's 15 countries seek to make decisions about their future. A draft treaty is to be prepared by the end of the year, and EU leaders are to meet in a special summit in Ireland in October to discuss the direction the bloc should take as it prepares for an influx of new members. The leaders want to wrap up the talks, known formally as the inter-governmental conference (IGC), by the middle of next year with the long-term goal of adding a dozen or more new countries from eastern Europe and the Mediterranean. But despite the speeded-up timetable, officials in Brussels say many EU countries remain unwilling to show their hand in negotiations until other issues facing the bloc, including the single currency and future EU finances, have become clearer. Even then, they say, what emerges from the IGC will almost certainly be a modest adjustment to the landmark Maastricht Treaty and not a radical new step towards European integration. Diplomats say impetus for accelerating the negotiations has been a belief among many countries that since treaty talks began in March, they have been little more that an airing of individual countries' positions. "They (negotiators) have gone through the whole treaty now a couple of times," said one EU diplomat. Diplomats and officials says there has been widespread agreement on the need for a more organised approach to the bloc's joint foreign policy, likely to mean the setting up of a planning and coordination office. Most EU countries also want the fight against unemployment to be formalised somehow by being included in the treaty. Germany and Britain are opposed to anything too stringent, however, fearing it could lead to centralised meddling in what they believe to be a largely local issue. Some language, however, is likely to be incorporated, diplomats say. The five months of talks have also made it clear that the new treaty will contain some system for improving efficiency in setting joint justice and interior policies. Some treaty language is also expected concerning joint defence issues, particularly in light of NATO's recent agreement to allow the Western European Union defence group to use its equipment for peacekeeping and humanitarian projects. On internal EU decision making, there is widespread agreement that changes need to be made if the EU is to work with another dozen or so members, but little sign yet of the required unanimity over what to do. Britain, with allies in some areas, remains opposed to diluting the ability of single countries to veto things they do not like. The bloc's smaller countries are steadfast against any change in their representation in Brussels or regular stints as EU president. What promises to be a key debate over so-called flexibility -- the right of some countries to integrate faster than others -- has also moved forward, with most countries favouring the concept being incorporated into the treaty. No agreement, however, has been reached over how, with some favouring allowing flexibility across a broad swathe of issues, and others saying it should be limited to certain areas only. Some countries, meanwhile, have started worrying about the process that will follow an agreement -- ratification. Diplomats said, for example, that France has been one of the key instigators of speeding up the IGC, seeking to avoid having ratification clash with its next round of elections.