German Chancellor Helmut Kohl arrives in Ukraine next Monday on the day it launches a new currency, to renew Germany's support for Kiev's progress towards fully-fledged democracy and a market economy. While market reform in Ukraine has been much slower to take hold than in neighbouring Russia, German officials say Kohl is still keen to show support for the step-by-step progress made by President Leonid Kuchma. But they say Bonn is not preparing to pledge new financial aid in addition to the three billion marks it has provided in various forms since Ukrainian independence, and the international programmes it is currently involved in. Both Bonn and Kiev see Germany as Ukraine's leading advocate in helping to bring it closer to international bodies such as the European Union and NATO. Kohl last visited Kiev in 1993, and Kuchma came to Bonn in July 1995. In particular, Bonn is pleased that Kuchma has improved relations with Russia as well as ensuring his country opens up towards western and central Europe. Ukraine introduced its first democratic constitution in June. The reduction of inflation to manageable proportions of 0.1 percent in June and July has allowed Ukraine to introduce its new currency, the hryvna, from Monday. It will knock five zeroes off prices hit by post-independence hyperinflation. Around 20 German business leaders will accompany Kohl, and they will be joined by another dozen German company representatives based in Kiev for commercial negotiations aimed at boosting trade between the two countries. In 1995 Germany exported 1.8 billion marks' worth of goods to Ukraine, and imported goods worth about 600 million marks. One project which could prove auspicious for German companies is the modernisation of a coal-fired power station at Smiyev which Ukrainian authorities are discussing with Siemens AG and ABB Asea Brown Boveri AG. The Group of Seven industrial powers have promised $2.3 billion in grants and aid to help Ukraine to close the Chernobyl nuclear plant by the year 2000. The Smiyev project is seen as a first step towards helping Ukraine to build up power generating capacity to replace the Chernobyl reactors. Kohl will hold talks with Kuchma and prime minister Pavlo Lazarenko on Tuesday, and make a speech at Kiev's Taras Shevchenko university. He will also lay a wreath at a new German war cemetery, and on Wednesday visit a college, financed with German money, which retrains army officers for civilian life. Kohl then travels on to visit the Black Sea port of Odessa before flying home. The agenda for Kohl's talks also includes the status of Ukraine's 40,000-strong German minority and the return of works of art and cultural treasures taken as booty by both sides in World War Two.