Producers of a new film version of Vladimir Nabokov's "Lolita," unbowed by a controversy fuelled by Belgium's paedophile scandal, said on Thursday that several American distributors were still interested in releasing it. Some U.S. and British critics have savaged Adrian Lyne, director of steamy "9 1/2 Weeks" and "Fatal Attraction", after reports of sex scenes between actor Jeremy Irons and an adult stand-in for co-star Dominique Swain, 14. The Russian-born American writer's 1955 bestseller on a middle-aged man's obsessive relationship with a 12-year-old girl was the subject of a film 34 years ago which portrayed the child as somewhat older. The remake has yet to be released in America. "The row is a complete fabrication," said a senior official at Paris's Pathe company, which pioneered cinema worldwide a century ago. "No one has seen the film yet. Lyne is still in the cutting room because he's very demanding and spends a lot of time in post-production." The official, who spoke on condition of anonymity, insisted that new worldwide concern about paedophilia sparked by the Belgian child-killing, kidnapping and porn scandal had nothing to do with the new adaptation of the novel. The cameras had started rolling in September last year and filming ended six months ago. "Negotiations are under way with several American distributors. That's not abnormal because we chose not to pre-sell the film but to wait for it to be very advanced," the official said. "Read the book again, this is silly. We took the decision to make the film a long time ago, it has nothing to with the scandal," he said. Lyne's remake, which cost an estimated $30 million, is reportedly far more explicit than the critically acclaimed 1962 version by Stanley Kubrick starring James Mason, Peter Sellers, and Sue Lyon. "Sex is shown in a way that is relevant to the story and not for the sake of stimulating filthy minds," scriptwriter Stephen Schiff has told an interviewer. "But it's not backed off from." "This is not a sex film," Schiff said. "When you see it you will think of it as a film involving sex not first or second but maybe fourth or fifth. It's about a lot of things." The Pathe source denied that Oscar-winning producer Richard Zanuck's decision to pull out before filming even started had scared off Hollywood. Zanuck has said he quit because of scheduling delays. Even before seeing the film, American critics have condemned it as politically incorrect. Britain's Daily Mail said: "Let us be sure that the new, authentic, honest, fearless and explicit film version of this dreary and poisonous tract in our misbegotten times gets its just reward -- critical obloquy." Asked whether he had seen at least rushes of Lyne's work, the Pathe official answered: "I don't want to say anything about the film itself as long as it is not ready. That would be against the rights of the director who can decide what scenes to put in." Lyne's contract, he said, stipulated that the film must qualify for a wide-distribution 'R' rating, allowing young people accompanied by an adult to see it in the United States, a crucial market for the film's profits. "My poor Lolita is having a rough time," Nabokov once wrote to fellow-novelist Graham Greene. "The pity is that if I had made her a boy, or a cow, or a bicycle, philistines might never have flinched."