Danish telecommunications group Tele Danmark on Thursday said heavy marketing expenses and escalating materials costs depressed first-half profits by 20 percent but it hoped the full-year outcome would be better. First-half pre-tax profits fell to 2.178 billion crowns ($381 million) from 2.721 billion in the same period last year. Finance Director Hans Munk Nielsen said that he hoped for a better outcome in the full-year result. "This is the first time that we have delivered a result that we cannot accept as satisfactory," he told a news conference. Marketing costs of 524 million crowns were incurred during a mobile phone sales war against rival Sonofon which boosted Tele Danmark's mobile subscriber total by 40 percent to 770,000 during the first six months of this year. Nielsen would not say if the company was prepared to face another round of price-cutting to retain its position, which is likely to be challenged further as recent deregulation takes hold. "We are firmly committed to being in the mobile phone business and we shall defend our market share but we shall assess the situation as it develops and have not yet taken any firm decisions," he said. Disappointing as it might have been for Tele Danmark's board, the result was not far below analysts' average forecast of a 2.205 billion crown pre-tax profit and well above the most pessimistic prediction of 1.910 billion. "There is nothing in the report to make you leap out of your seat. It's almost as good as expected so it's reasonable that the share should weaken a shade, but certainly not more," an analyst said. The market was sanguine and after some initial volatility, the company's shares settled down by mid-afternoon to around two crowns below Wednesday's 278 crown close. There had been some speculation on the effect on results of Tele Danmark's acquisition last March of a 16.5 stake in Belgian semi-privatised telephone company Belgacom, despite the fact that Belgacom published its own results recently. Far from being a drain on the Danish group's resources, as some had feared, Thursday's report showed the Belgian purchase contributing 1.053 billion crowns to group turnover and adding a net pre-tax 152 million crowns to the bottom line. Although Nielsen hoped that the second half of 1996 would be more satisfactory than the first, he said that developments in the mobile phone market were hard to predict. The official company report expected the full-year result before financial items to be up on the year before but said that the net result might not equal 1995's 3.494 billion crowns. --Steve Weizman, Copenhagen Newsroom +45 33969650 ($1=5.713 Danish Crown)