Germany, the self-appointed patron of a stable future European currency, on Thursday made clear that it would not be a party to political compromise in the creation of the Euro. In a two-pronged offensive against speculation that Europe might slacken its efforts to cut budget deficits, Chancellor Helmut Kohl and Bundesbank President Hans Tietmeyer said there was no room for laxity in meeting economic criteria for the planned common Euro currency. That view was restated by a senior German Finance Ministry official, Juergen Stark, who told a forum in Austria that the economic conditions set for entry to economic and monetary union (EMU) must not be diluted. "There must not and will not be any weakening of the criteria," he said, according to the text of a speech. Germany's restatement of its hardline approach comes at a critical time, with a growing number of dissenting voices raised against the austerity measures that Europe must implement if it is to bring its budgets into line by a 1997 deadline. Countries which want to meld their currencies into the Euro from January 1, 1999, must meet tough conditions on inflation, currency, interest rates and public budgets in that year. Germany itself is by no means certain to reach the reference levels laid down in the Maastricht Treaty on deficits and debt, calling for a three percent and 60 percent maximum ratio to gross domestic product, respectively. But it has remained adamant that these levels must be seen as absolutes if the currency project is to succeed. In speeches, both Kohl and Tietmeyer focused on the importance of the new currency gaining credibility from the outset -- not only in financial markets but also from ordinary people, who are nervous of ceding the cherished deutschemark. They both rejected the suggestion that Germany's insistence on fiscal discipline before and after 1999 was some attempt to force a German way of thinking on its European partners by bringing its considerable economic power to bear. "We know that the Euro must come and will come, at conditions which cannot be diluted as the trust of the public is at stake," Kohl said in a speech at a celebration on Wednesday evening to mark Tietmeyer's 65th birthday. "Those looking at us from outside should not see us as crazy or slightly hysterical over this..," he added, noting that older Germans had suffered two bouts of hyperinflation. "EMU is only possible as a low-inflation community, not just at its birth but down the years," Kohl said. "When we say this, it is not just a routine comment from us. And it is certainly not an attempt to make others adopt German ways," he added. Tietmeyer, who has often been billed as opposing EMU -- a charge he firmly rebuts -- said he was in total support of European integration providing it had the right economic basis and ideally went hand in hand with deeper political union. "The economic fundamentals are important and indispensable," Tietmeyer said. "Stability...does not come of itself. You have to work for it. But it is worth fighting for." Germany faces an uphill struggle to reach the Maastricht targets. Bonn admitted on Wednesday that it would not be able to meet its planned budget deficit of 60 billion marks ($40.6 billion) in 1996 and coalition sources said on Thursday the actual figure could be more than 70 billion. In France -- the country viewed with Germany as an essential initial partner in EMU -- threatened strikes pose a new challenge to unpopular budget measures in spite of a deep-rooted political will to see EMU go ahead. Many other European countries, including Italy, a founder member of the integration movement, are judged by analysts to have barely any chance of meeting the conditions in time.