Activity in Portugal's latest futures contract -- three-month Lisbor quotes -- should outstrip business in the existing bond and share contracts, at least at the start, traders and analysts said. The contract, which starts trading on Monday on the Oporto Derivatives Exchange, is seen drawing interest from a wide client base, including industrial companies. It is supported by a relatively strong cash market and a lively forward rate agreement (FRA), a forward market that developed to fill a gap left by the previous absence of a futures contract on short-term interest rates. "There is a degree of optimism (about the new contract)," said Antonio Pedro Azevedo of Banco Mello Investimentos. "I think it is going to be more liquid than the existing (futures) contracts," said another trader at a contract market-maker who asked not to be identified. Traded daily volume on the FRA markets ranges between 50 and 70 billion escudos. "If we succeed in bringing half this volume (to the futures) over the next one or two years, taking into account the fact commissions will be around half (those of the FRA), then it will be a good result," said one source at the Oporto Exchange. Trade in the two existing futures contracts -- a 10-year interest contract and the PSI-20 share index -- has got off to a slow start since being launched on June 20. Traders said activity in the 10-year (OT) contract has been hampered by the lack of a repo market and the absence of regulations allowing investment funds to take part. "I think that the market can start off well with better liquidity than the other (futures) contracts," said Jose Carlos Andre, chief dealer at Banco de Comercio & Industria. "But further out, I think volumes could decline (because eventually)...those wanting to speculate will find the OT and the PSI-20 more attractive," he added. This was the case in Spain where volume in the short-term contract was below that of the 10-year. Views were mixed on how active non-residents would be in the new market. Some analysts said the Lisbor could suffer along with the OT from the lack of a repo market and investment funds. The market-makers for the three-month Lisbor are Banco Portugues do Atlantico,  Banco Chemical, Banco de Fomento & Exterior, Banco Espirito Santo, Banco Mello de Investimentos,  Banco Nacional Ultramarino, Banco Portugues de Investimentos, Banco Totta & Acores and  Caixa Geral de Depositos. The contract will be quoted in terms of the difference from 100. For example, a rate of 7.15 percent will be cited as 92.85. The last day of trade will be two working days before the third Wednesday of the contract month. Each contract will be for 100 million escudos, and the tick-value will be 2,500 escudos. The margin is 120 ticks per contract, with maximum variation 40 ticks. --Lisbon bureau 3511-3113126