Sweden's doubts about monetary union make the country's a quick entry into the EU exchange rate mechanism (ERM) unlikely even if neighbouring Finland decides to join this autumn, economists said on Thursday. "There is no reason for Sweden to join the ERM until we have decided to enter monetary union," one analyst in Stockholm said. Speculation about imminent Swedish ERM entry seems to have cooled considerably over the last few months, despite signs that Helsinki may decide to join any month now. "I think the reasonable conclusion is that it is being put on ice," said Thomas Pousette, head of economic research at Nordbanken. A statement by Finance Minister Erik Asbrink on Wednesday that Swedish entry into economic and monetary union (EMU) could be delayed beyond its planned start in 1999 has strengthened the view that the crown will continue to float on currency markets. "It is clear that it is hard to reconcile ERM membership with this standpoint," said Swedbank economist Ake Gustafsson. Asbrink said it was an open question whether Sweden would join EMU in the first stage or not, further fuelling speculation that Sweden would decide next year not to join EMU in 1999. "It is not a question of yes or no to currency union. It is rather about 'yes now' or 'no now'," Asbrink said in a signed article in the Dagens Nyheter newspaper. His comments, which caused domestic bond yields to rise and the crown to weaken, came at a time when speculation is mounting that Finland will soon decide to link its currency to the ERM. Such a move would be in line with Helsinki's determination to be among the first group of countries to join EMU. "It is completely clear that the markka will be linked," said Risto Uimonen, editorial writer at daily Helsingin Sanomat. "All the time the question has been one of when, not whether." The main reason for joining ERM would be to qualify for the single currency since it seems to be one of the criteria laid down by the EU's Maastricht treaty for entering monetary union. Both the Swedish crown and the Finnish markka have been floating since Europe's currency turmoil in 1992. Economist James McKay at investment bank Paine Webber said that while Finland and Italy may join the ERM within the next few months, Swedish entry was unlikely both this year and next. Referring to a split about monetary union among the party's supporters, McKay said it was was becoming "increasingly difficult for the Social Democratic government to further integrate the Swedish economy with Europe." However, economists saw only limited benefits from joining ERM, apart from helping in meeting the EMU criteria. They seemed to be happy with the current policy aimed at keeping inflation low, rather than fixing the currency. "We know that (Swedish Prime Minister) Goran Persson views the system as not appropriate for the Swedish krona. I would certainly agree with him on that point," McKay said. He said the Swedish economy, relatively dependent on forestry products, was quite different from the one of core Europe. A link to the German mark could therefore "promote quite significant volatility in the economy," he added. "So I would not view a link as that appropriate for the time being and I suspect that is the line domestic politicians will be taking, particularly given the public opposition towards further integration," McKay said.