Repsol's share price is likely to continue to trade flat or lower in the next few months after lacklustre first half results on Thursday underlined problems facing the Spanish energy group this year, analysts said. Net first half profit was 61.45 billion pesetas ($491.7 million) , down 1.1 percent on the previous year and slightly below market expectations of 61.94 billion. The company said the fall in results was due to a poor performance in the chemicals division, although it noted a slight recovery in main petrochemicals products in the last few months. Strikes at Petronor in the first half have also caused various damage to the distillation unit at the Bilbao refinery which impacted results negatively. Traders were surprised at the sharp rise in the company's share price following the results announcement. Repsol traded up 25 pesetas at 4,110 at 1250 GMT, down from a session high of 4,200. A Madrid analyst said the increase had been sparked by a buy order for 200,000 shares from S.G. Warburg, which triggered others in its wake. "I don't think it has very much to do with the results," said Javier Borrachero, energy analyst at Banco Central Hispano brokerage in Madrid. "The results are not good, but they weren't much of a surprise either," he said, adding that the drop in chemicals results had been bigger than he expected. "The strike at the Petronor refinery had a slightly bigger impact than most of us had expected," an analyst at Barclays de Zoete Wedd in London said. Full year results were expected to be disappointing after a 21.6 percent increase in 1995, analysts said. One source forecast a rise in net profit of around seven percent in 1996. "Full-year results are clearly going to be down from last year," said the BZW analyst. "There's no real reason why the third quarter should be different from the second." Although Repsol's share price has already incorporated a certain amount of bad news this year, causing it to fall 15 percent from the year high of 4,880, several factors could further depress it this year. Among them is a price war in the United Kingdom which has caused a drop in the maximum petrol price which the Spanish government sets each week. Another is the liberalisation of the gas market, with Compania Espanola de Petroleos (CEPSA) set to start selling butane gas in canisters to Spanish homes sometime from October onwards in competition with Repsol. However some analysts believe this is unlikely to have a marked impact on the share price, as it has been expected for some years. Traders were also worried about a possible cut in the Spanish price ceiling which could be followed by a rise in taxes on petrol. "The government seems committed to increasing revenue and lowering inflation," said Borrachero, noting that a tax hike on cigarettes which has depressed the price of tobacco firm Tabacalera raised fears of a similar move in the petrol market. Repsol could continue to underperform the Ibex-35 leading share index for the rest of the year, he said. But the company's performance could still recover in the second half. Repsol's participation in the North Sea Harding field and the company's new Rodaballo-1 field in Catalonia could boost production, while the chemicals sector was also likely to recover from the first half drop. ($ = 124.9 Spanish Pesetas)