Danish insurer Forsikringsselskabet Codan A/D on Thursday posted greatly improved profits for 1996's first six months, boosted by a better accident insurance performance in Denmark and securities gains. But it declined to give any overall forecast for its whole year result. "The Codan management expects the improvement in Danish accident assurance earnings to continue in the second half of 1996," Codan said in a statement with its first-half result. "We foresee Swedish accident weakening somewhat, while life insurance should stay at the same level as last year and bank operating profits are seen further advancing. "Otherwise the overall group result for whole year 1996 will be affected by securities portfolio earnings upon which the management declines to make any comment," Codan said. Codan, Denmark's second biggest insurer, reported interim net profit after minorities of 555 million crowns ($97.3 million), more than six times better than the same 1995 period's 87 million crowns. It described the result as "very satisfactory", representing a 20.9 percent per annum return on own capital. It attributed the improvement to vastly higher profits on accident insurance in Denmark, combined with stable results for its life and pension insurance divisions, solid advances for Codan Bank and securities portfolio gains. Danish accident insurance profits rose to 300 million crowns in 1996's first half compared to only 54 million a year ago, with the net claims ratio falling to 73 in the interim period from 78 in the first six months of 1995, while costs were as expected, Codan said. Otherwise Swedish accident pre-tax profits rose to 49 million crowns in the period from 36 million at end-June 1995, with Codan Bank doubling pre-tax profits to 64 million crowns from 31 million a year ago and life and pension insurance profits stable. "Cost cutting initiatives instigated earlier  in insurance operations are expected to keep total costs down to the same level as last year, with more palpable results expected in the years to come," it said. Codan, 71.45 percent owned by Britain's Royal & Sun Alliance, said its planned new Oslo-based joint life insurance company would open at the new year in co-operation with Norway's Fokus, with the Danish firm taking a 90 percent shareholding. The Codan share rose 35 crowns to 905 on its bumper interim result in small volume. --Chris Follett, Copenhagen newsroom +45-33969652 ($ = 5.702 Danish Crowns)