Austrian police said on Thursday they had arrested three men on suspicion of sexually abusing children and producing child pornography in what looked like a "child-for-hire" network spread across central Europe. Vice squad officers seized box-loads of videos and other pornographic material from the home of one of the suspects at the start of a major investigation into the procuring of children, some as young as seven, to paedophiles in the region. The hunt for others connected to the ring could involve neighbouring Slovakia, the Czech Republic and Germany. "The three men, who are aged between 40 and 51, have been arrested and there appears to be evidence of child abuse," a Vienna police spokesman said. Two of the men are Austrian citizens, one born in Slovakia and the other in the Czech Republic. The third is Polish, police said. Police declined to comment on whether there was a connection with a Belgian murder and child abuse case which has caused a wave of revulsion across Europe. Belgian Marc Dutroux, alleged to be the dominant person in a paedophile pornography ring, has been named by police in the Slovak capital, Bratislava, as a suspect in the murder of one Slovak woman and the kidnapping of another. Austrian current affairs magazine News launched a major investigative report into the Vienna-based network which provided clients in the Austrian capital with a choice of 70 girls, largely from Slovakia, aged between seven and 13. Some visited customers in Vienna's top hotels, it said. Catalogues and videos are sent to clients showing the girls parading like models and a code number for booking them -- material which appears not to be illegal in Austria. A News team went under cover to check out the network and met a major "child trader" in Bratislava who led them to a city apartment where three girls aged 12 and 13 awaited them. Vienna police sources said paedophiles made contact by using codes in sex magazines, some of which experts had cracked. Apart from more sophisticated communications through computers, paedophiles were also putting ads in magazines to buy and sell "art objects", such as a statue of a child, which was understood to mean the procuring of a child for sex. News published its report in this week's edition issued on Thursday but accompanying photographs showing young girls naked with only a black box over their eyes and their genitals obscured raised questions over the magazine's ethics. "The story exposing the network is good but the words are enough," said Greens spokesman Stefan Schennach. "It's not necessary to show such photos. It's a step over the limit." News's deputy editor Walter Pohl defended the magazine's decision to publish the pictures, saying it was part of a strategy to force police action. "We showed the pictures to the police before publication and it was a big shock to them. We are not sure they would have made the arrests if we had not done so," Pohl told Reuters. Asked whether the photos were little more than soft porn pandering to the tastes of paedophiles, Pohl said: "Maybe 50 to 100 paedophiles in Austria will think it is porn, but on the other hand police have made arrests and hopefully some of these girls in Bratislava will no longer work in these networks."