The first world conference on commercial sexual abuse of children turned the spotlight on news media on Thursday, urging journalists to bring the taboo issue into the open in a sensitive way. The five-day conference in the Swedish capital is being held in the shadow of revelations of child sex-abuse and murder in Belgium and a growing realisation that child pornography has become a multi-million dollar industry around the world. Aidan White, secretary general of the International Federation of Journalists (IFJ), called on the media to bring issues of children's rights and child sex abuse to light. He said the Stockholm conference should produce "concrete ideas for helping journalists to raise this issue, to report on this issue, and to make it part and parcel of the democratic discussion for which we're responsible." Organisers have said the conference, attended by over 1,000 delegates from 130 countries and several hundred journalists, aims to draw international attention to the trafficking and trade of children for sexual purposes. The IFJ said that the media had a responsibility to raise awareness without sensationalising cases of child sex abuse. The media could become an exploiter of children "by creating sexually provocative images of children in news or advertising, or, at worst, as the vehicle for child pornography, or sources of information for paedophile networks and sexual tourism," the IFJ said in a report. At the conference as UNICEF's special representative for the film arts, British actor Roger Moore, who portayed fearless agent James Bond, revealed a disturbing childhood experience influenced his work as a children's rights activist. Moore said that when he was eight years old a man made sexual advances towards him when he was camping with a friend, but that the incident was relatively minor and he managed to escape before any more serious move was made. "I left the tent and I was sitting on a branch and after a couple of minutes he came up and he made another suggestive remark about my anatomy...he made a grab and I just rolled backwards over the branch and ran off." Moore said the event illustrated many children's inability to talk to adults about issues that trouble them. "Sometimes (children) can't be heard because their voices are not strong enough and there's nobody to hear them. And so we as UNICEF representatives are the voices of those silent children." He called for stronger paedophile police units around the world. "I would like to see police forces all over the world increase their paedophile section," Moore told reporters. Child sex abuse cases have grabbed world headlines during the Stockholm conference, with the worst case still creating shockwaves in Belgium and the rest of Europe. Police investigating a Belgian child kidnapping, porn and killing scandal dug for bodies for a third day on Thursday at one of six houses owned by chief suspect Marc Dutroux. Belgium went into shock on August 17 as Dutroux led police to the bodies of eight-year-old friends Melissa Russo and Julie Lejeune in the garden of another house he owns. Finnish police said this week they had seized two computers and nearly 350 floppy disks at a Helsinki flat holding material including pictures of sadistic acts with children, torture, mutilation and cannibalism. Law enforcers there said they had no powers to arrest the suspect, a 19-year-old student, because under Finnish law distributing hard-core pornography is a minor offence. Police also arrested suspects for child sex abuse in Finland and Austria, while Berlin prosecutors said they had filed charges against two German men for sexually abusing children in Thailand. The Stockholm conference is jointly organised by the Swedish government, the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), the pressure group ECPAT (End Child Prostitution in Asia Tourism) and an NGO (non-governmental organisation) group on the rights of the child.