The French government stuck to a hard line on illegal immigrants on Thursday, announcing that 88 deported Africans were flown home despite left-wing protests. The government apparently waited until the overnight flights had reached their destination to confirm they had taken off. The Interior Ministry said two French planes flew home 88 immigrants, 10 of them expelled from the Netherlands. This took to 25 the number of deportation flights from France since conservative Prime Minister Alain Juppe took over 15 months ago. The planes left on Wednesday night from an air force base at Evreux west of Paris after unionists and human rights activists had urged civilian pilots not to fly deportees. A wide-bodied air force Airbus A-310 flew home 35 Malians and 11 Senegalese. A Boeing 737 of Air Charter, a subsidiary of state-owned Air France, carried 12 Tunisians and 30 Zaireans, including 10 from the Netherlands. The Communist CGT and pro-Socialist CFDT unions called on airlines not to lend their planes to the government and urged airlines and airport staff to demonstrate at Paris' Charles de Gaulle airport on Friday against "flights of shame". "Airline personel must not be turned into police assistants," they said. The daily Le Monde said opposition to the immigration policy was growing in France and African countries, mainly Mali and Senegal, were voicing increasing concern. The flights took off as police said 11,000 protesters marched through Paris to demand that expulsion orders be repealed and immigration laws reviewed -- a demonstration twice the size of a similar protest last week. French handling of illegal immigration has taken centre stage since police last week dragged out 300 African protesters, 10 of them on a hunger strike, who had been occupying a Paris church for two months to demand residence permits. Two protesters and two policemen were slightly injured in clashes as some of the demonstrators tried to march on the Saint-Bernard church, in the heavily immigrant Goutte d'Or district, which has become a symbol of the protest. Four of the church protesters were among 57 Africans deported last week on a military aircraft. CIMADE, a group looking after immigrants, said three more were on the latest deportation flights. This was not confirmed by the ministry. Interior Minister Jean-Louis Debre, buoyed by surveys saying that a majority of voters backs hardline 1993 laws to curb immigration, has said they would be enforced but he would review individual cases on humanitarian grounds. "Sending people home on chartered flights while at the same time promising to review their cases is not a solution," the protesters' spokesman Abubakar Diop said. He called at the National Assembly on Gilles de Robien, the floor leader of the UDF junior partner in the ruling coalition, in order "to see how we can get out of the deadlock". The opposition Socialists called the policy on immigration "incoherent and brutal" and said they were drafting proposals to reform the law, including restoring the tradition that anyone born on French soil automatically becomes a French citizen. The 1993 laws say children born in France to foreigners only become French if they request it after turning 16. Debre's adviser on immigration Jean-Claude Barreau called the Socialists' proposals "suicidal demagoguery going against their voters' beliefs". "If someone tries to get in without a ticket and gets caught, it is not abnormal that he be expelled," he wrote in Le Monde.