Daimler-Benz AG should keep up the brisk recovery shown in the first six months of 1996 in the year's second half, taking more steps toward profitability after a spectacular 5.7 billion mark loss in 1995, analysts said on Thursday. The German industrial group said at a news conference in London that six-month group net profit surged to 782 million marks from a loss of 1.57 billion marks a year ago. Industry analysts said the results were at the top end of expectations and that comments from Daimler chief executive Juergen Schrempp supported views that the second half of 1996 would be even better than the first half. "There will be tendency to nudge forecasts up, but not by a large amount," said John Lawson, analyst at Salomon Brothers in London. "The figures should underpin Daimler shares." Analysts said the results were difficult to interpret because Daimler for the first time published the figures exclusively according to U.S. GAAP accounting standards, making comparisons to recent years difficult. "I am expecting quite a strong improvement," said Bob Barber, analyst at James Capel. "They are on their way to attaining more reasonable levels of profitability." Analysts said a breakdown of the profit picture was largely as expected. Flag-ship unit Mercedes-Benz continued to provide the bulk of the group's profits while Daimler-Benz Aerospace (DASA) produced losses. Mercedes saw profits climb in the fist half of the year because of its recently introduced C- and E-class models, analysts said. Heavy trucks, however, suffering under a weak European economy, hurt the unit's overall profit. However, a new line of heavy trucks in October and a new line of lighter weight commercial vehicles next spring could give Mercedes profits a further lift in the months ahead. "Mercedes is doing very well considering the difficulty heavy trucks are having," said Lothar Lubinetski, analyst at Enskilda Corporate. Mercedes operating profit climbed 2.8 percent to 1.4 billion marks in the first half. DASA, meanwhile, lost 700 million marks in the first half, but analysts said the outlook at the aerospace company could improve. DASA is basing its business strategy on the dollar being at 1.35 marks and could climb to profitability as soon as next year, if the dollar remains close to 1.50 marks. Schrempp repeated on Thursday that he expected DASA to make a profit by 1998. Tiny Daimler-Benz Interservices (debis) saw operating profits climb to 212 million marks from 156 million marks a year earlier. Analysts said that while the group's net profit figure was as good as had been expected, operating profit of 827 million marks, up from a 613 million mark loss, was less encouraging. There were also other reasons to be on guard, they said. "The fact that net profit was bolstered by a net tax credit and the cash outflow are factors that detract from the first impressions," Barber said. Daimler had a 164 million mark tax credit during the fist half after taking a 1.02 billion mark charge for the first half of 1996. "My initial take on this is that the U.S. GAAP was at the top end of the range but the operating income from the divisions was disappointing," one analyst said who asked not be identified.