Speculation in the cocoa market that the 1996/97 Ivorian main crop will be above first estimates has kept physical buying at bay this week but traders said the jury remained out on the repercussions of the September squeeze. Physical traders said interest from chocolate manufacturers had not returned following the pick-up in activity earlier this month as most seemed confident lower prices lay ahead. "The buyers in the chocolate industry are not too worried. They took on a fair amount of cover in the summer and are happy to wait and see what the next crop news is," one trader said. London-traded futures have been under pressure over the past week, the second month December trading at around 990 stg a tonne, well below last week's levels of 1,050 stg. Most active March was this week hovering around 1,005 stg. Traders said the market met aggressive fund selling which in turn sparked trade liquidation. The lack of any definite crop news had prevented any substantial fresh purchases by the trade. But Dutch industry sources went further. They said news on the next Ivorian crop was improving. Initial forecasts centred on 800,000 tonnes. Around a month ago, this was revised to 850,000 and now predicitions were as high as 950,000 tonnes. "We are hearing of better and better things," one industry source said. "Our advice is don't buy today but just let the market go," he said. He added that recent rainfall in the Ivory Coast had caused a degree of panic but since then reports had shown the worst of it occurred away from growing areas and the crop to be undamaged. Cocoa stocks were still high in Amsterdam but arrivals had now slowed and they were gradually easing. From a peak just above 600,000 tonnes inventories were falling through the usual take-up from Dutch processors. Based on annual grindings data, the Dutch industry uses about 1,000 tonnes of beans a day. "The business had quietened down again now. I have the impression the battle has been fought," one warehousing source said, referring to the huge amount of cocoa that has arrived to be tendered against the September position in London. And the focus is now moving ahead from September as the trade contemplates what will happen once the holders of long positions take delivery of the cocoa. Some traders said they felt at least some of it would be re-appearing on the market, sold against the December and March contracts. "One thing is for sure, they will not be keeping it for themselves," one trader said. Some are also speculating a shortage could develop, should the cocoa stay off the market and the Ivorian crop be delayed for some reason. But, as others pointed out, this would depend on two variables that were difficult to predict. "If it occured, there could be a problem. But there are so many theories in the market at the moment you could just about believe anything," one added. -- Amsterdam Newsroom +31 20 504 5000