U.S.-based Baxter International Inc on Thursday announced plans to create a global blood-products powerhouse through the acquisition of Europe's Immuno International AG for about $715 million. Baxter's purchase of Immuno, to be completed over three years, won the blessing of the two companies' boards but still needs approval from European Union and U.S. competition authorities, they said in a joint statement. Immuno, whose shares are listed in Switzerland but is based in Vienna, is a leading manufacturer of biopharmaceutical products. Merging it with Baxter's biotechnology group aims to create a major provider of products and services for transfusion medicine, including biopharmaceuticals. The two companies had combined 1995 sales of $1.6 billion and employed 8,900 people. "This union fits into Baxter's overall strategy that aims to advance our global expansion and market penetration as well as to drive our technological innovation," Baxter president Vernon Loucks Jr said in the statement. Analysts said the accord would help both companies by melding their complementary strengths. "Immuno has good, high-quality products but the problem is...the growth potential for products such as Immuno's was fairly limited," said Michael Sjostrom at Pictet & Cie in Geneva. "This makes sense for both companies." "In my eyes this was fairly well valued," said another Swiss pharmaceuticals analyst who asked not be named. He said Immuno could have had trouble finding a buyer because of its rare combination of blood plasma and vaccines businesses. Immuno bearer shares inched up to 889 francs before settling back to around 886, just above the previous close at 883. Baxter, which is based in Deerfield, Illinois, will offer 900 Swiss francs ($753.7) for each outstanding Immuno bearer share once cartel authorities clear the transaction. Immuno posted a pre-tax profit of 38.8 million Swiss francs in 1995, down from 43.5 million in 1994. Operating profit dipped to 61.3 million from 67.3 million on sales of 625.5 million, down from 636.3 million. Immuno board member Rolf Fuchs declined to give a forecast for 1996 earnings but said the company would announce first-half results within the next two weeks. He said the deal brought together companies who fit well together. "Probably the two companies are made for each other. We are in very strong in eastern and western Europe, Baxter has a strong position in Asia and the United States," he told Reuters. "Our product lines are also complementary. This makes sense market-wise and geographically." He said blood-plasma products accounted for around 85 percent of sales and vaccines for 10 to 12 percent. The deal calls for Baxter to purchase from the controlling shareholders of Immuno a package of stock representing 54 percent of the voting interest and 37 percent of the capital. Baxter will pay 850 francs in cash for each of these bearer shares and 141.67 francs in cash for each registered share. An additional sum per share will be held back to provide for Immuno's existing contingent liabilities. Shortly after this transaction, Baxter will launch a cash tender for all publicly traded bearer shares, which account for 14 percent of the voting interest and 33 percent of the capital. Baxter will acquire all of the remaining shares of Immuno within three years after the first closing. The future share purchase price is fixed at 1,025 Swiss francs per bearer share and 170.83 Swiss francs per registered share in cash, with more funds held back against any contingent liabilities. ($1=1.1941 Swiss Franc)