British Airways Plc said on Thursday it had no plans to take a majority shareholding in subsidiary airline Deutsche BA Luftfahrtgesellschaft mbH. A British Airways spokeswoman said BA decided some time ago to maintain its stake in the German airline at the present 49 percent level and not to exercise an option for a 51 percent stake. The majority 51 percent stake in Deutsche BA is held at present by a consortium of German banks, enabling the airline to maintain a status as a German airline. The spokeswoman told Reuters: "We have no intention to use the option. It has been known for a long time that the option to take over 51 percent will not be taken up." British Airways Germany manager Paul Giblin said on August 28 at a ceremony in Berlin to mark 50 years of flights to the German capital that Deutsche BA would remain a German carrier. British Airways gained approval on August 27 from the European Commission to take full ownership of the French airline TAT European Airlines. The BA spokeswoman said that as a German airline, Deutsche BA is able to operate international services under bilateral air agreements between Germany and non-European Union countries, particularly in eastern Europe. These traffic rights would no longer be available if the airline became a British-owned carrier, she pointed out. "The Deutsche BA routes to eastern Europe are very important and should be continued," the spokeswoman said. "It makes no sense for us to have an airline whose routes stop at the borders of the EU," she added. British Airways, Deutsche BA and CityFlyer Express Ltd together carried 3.8 million passengers in Germany in the 1995/96 business year, the spokeswoman said. The BA group, including Deutsche BA, aims to generate total revenue of more than one billion marks ($677.7 million) in Germany for the first time in 1996/97, she added. The spokeswoman declined to disclose last year's revenue total on competitive grounds. Deutsche BA said on June 4 it carried 2.2 million passengers in 1995/96 and recorded an 11 percent sales rise to 492 million marks. The total figure of 3.8 million passengers on BA, Deutsche BA and Cityflyer Express did not include Deutsche BA passengers flying domestic German or international routes to destinations other than Britain, a BA spokeswoman said.   ($ = 1.475 German Marks)