German officials on Thursday played down the significance of Chancellor Helmut Kohl's hastily organised trip to see Russian President Boris Yeltsin next week, saying it was a spontaneous impulse between friends. The tenor of the visit was one of "just come on over for a quick visit without much fuss or protocol", they told journalists in Bonn, while pointedly declining to say whether Kohl or Yeltsin had suggested the trip. But the visit comes at a time of renewed speculation about the health of the Russian president, who is taking a holiday outside Moscow while security aide Alexander Lebed tries to negotiate an end to the war in Chechnya. Yeltsin has only been seen in public once since late June. He made a brief appearance at his inauguration ceremony for a second term of office on August 9. German officials, who declined to be identified, would not reveal whether Kohl got any impression of Yeltsin's health from the telephone call with him on Wednesday during which his visit was agreed. They only said it was a "very good conversation". But Kohl, Russia's chief advocate in the West who likes to stress his close friendship with Yeltsin, appeared to have had an easier time getting to see the president than Lebed had. Yeltsin's security troubleshooter returned to Moscow from Chechnya last week intending to discuss a new peace plan with Yeltsin, but found the president could not or would not see him. German officials say Kohl planned to see Yeltsin soon after his re-election and seized on September 7 as a rare gap in their packed calendars. Keeping the visit informal means it can be organised at short notice without the protocol trappings which would be required for a more official visit, they said. The meeting will take place in an unspecified presidential residence near Moscow. German government sources declined to say if there was a specific agenda. Kohl last week made a point of delivering a personal message to Yeltsin urging him to fulfil the promise he made before his re-election in June and bring the bloody conflict in Chechnya to a speedy and peaceful solution. Yeltsin got a boost last spring when Kohl visited him in Moscow during his re-election campaign and left little doubt he wanted the incumbent to win. German officials say it was only natural now for Kohl to take the opportunity to resume regular, personal contacts with one of Germany's most important partners.