Dutch central bank President Wim Duisenberg said on Thursday he welcomed the government's 1997 budget proposal, saying it would put the Netherlands firmly on course for Europe's single currency. "If it's true what I've read about it, I must say it is very satisfactory," Duisenberg told journalists during an economic conference in this Tyrolean mountain resort. Duisenberg said the government's proposals, which have not been made public yet, would reduce the government deficit to "just above two percent" of gross domestic product (GDP) in 1997, from already less than three percent this year. The designated head of the European Central Bank admitted the country's debt level was still in excess of 60 percent of GDP, but said it was going in the "right direction" to satisfy Maastricht criteria for membership of Europe's monetary union. Duisenberg has been one of the severest critics of Dutch governments' finance policy in the past, relentlessly stressing the need for budget discipline and wage restraint. He has moderated his tone since right-of-centre Finance Minister Gerrit Zalm imposed strict and clear budget targets for the full four-year rule of the Labour-led government which took office in 1994 and which should enable the Netherlands to qualify for EMU. Zalm's main worry was the state debt of 78.8 percent of gross domestic product in 1995 and which has to fall 'significantly' to enter the single currency union in 1999. The Finance Ministry recently said the debt could be reduced by as much as 2.5 percentage points in 1997 if the state's cash reserves at the central bank were used to redeem some debt. Duisenberg said the budget proposals he had seen would also guarantee that Dutch interest rates, both at the short and the long end, would remain below German rates. Currently, the Dutch special advances rate is 50 basis points under the equivalent German repo rate of 3.00 percent. Three-month guilder deposits trade 35 basis points under German equivalents while 10-year guilder bond yields are eight basis points below 10-year bunds. "The budget will support that phenomenon," he said. -- Knut Engelmann, Alpbach newsroom +43 663 025 661