With doubts over Europe's economic outlook and ability to curb public spending growing, EU officials will be under intense pressure to deliver progress on three critical aspects of EMU in early September. A budget stability pact, a new Exchange Rate Mechanism and the legal underpinings of a common currency will be addressed by the European Commission during the early part of next month. Together with the views of the European Monetary Institute, forerunner to Europe's central bank, the conclusions will form the basis for discussion among EU finance ministers meeting in Dublin on September 21. The unveiling of such views, however, comes at a most inauspicious time. Despite unwavering political commitment, doubts over the timetable for Economic and Monetary Union and the ability of some countries, notably France, to meet its preconditions are growing daily. Such concerns are not only confined to Europe. On Wednesday U.S. Treasury Secretary Robert Rubin expressed what many here have been wondering -- whether the drive to curb public spending will not lead to a downward spiral which harms both growth and government revenues. "If you go too quickly on the deficit reduction you have so much of a drag you can overwhelm the interest effect," Rubin told Reuters in an interview. The pressure to keep EMU on course has also focused attention on Germany's Bundesbank, with many questioning how much of a factor EMU will play in its future policy decisions. For the immediate future, however, a number of sticking points remain in all three areas under discussion. Still, EU monetary officials and analysts remain confident that such differences can be resolved without much conflict. Following is a brief summary of where negotiations stand. BUDGET STABILITY PACT -- A German initiative designed to enforce budget discipline among EMU participants, the primary obstacle is how to incorporate penalities in an automatic fashion against governments which let their deficits rise. While the Maastricht treaty already allows for fines on those with deficits above 3.0 percent of GDP, the procedure is considered cumbersome and without much bite. German Finance Minister Theo Waigel wants the review process sped up, and the Commission has put forward a compromise which seeks to streamline the process. How to accomplish this, however, is a bit tricky given the treaty's legal constraints. As Werner Becker of Deutsche Bank Research in Frankfurt puts it: "The key point is how to fit the stability pact into a legal framework." EU officials say the most reasonable option would be to have secondary legislation which includes Waigel's plan. ERM II - Unlike the present currency grid where currencies are bi-laterally aligned against each other, the new proposal will put the single currency as the anchor and all currencies not in the EMU area will, if their governments want, trade against it in relatively wide and flexible bands. The voluntary nature of a new ERM is considered essential. "My view is that countries will not be forced to join the ERM but I think the EU will say that any country that wishes to enter EMU in the future will have to be a member," says Charles Goodhart of the London School of Economics. Still unclear, however, is the role the European Central Bank (ECB) will play in supporting currencies outside the grid should they come under speculative attack. There is a strong desire to place limits on intervention and many want the ECB to have a say in initiating parity changes should the need arise. But such a proposal runs into questions about political sovereignty and no one is yet certain what kind of compromise will be forthcoming. LEGAL FRAMEWORK - The issue of contract continuity has been uppermost in the minds of financial markets and the Commission has tried to assauge such worries through numerous proposals. The major concern is what legal standing bondholders have, for example, when a contract denominated in a national currency matures after the start of EMU in 1999. Some investors want every contingency covered in EU legislation, but many say that such blanket coverage is virtually impossible. Another question mark is when the legal framework is enacted. Under the treaty the EU may have to delay a final decision until 1998. For investors, there is a strong desire to have such issues clarified as soon as possible.  REUTER