Swedish forestry group SCA said on Thursday it saw improved market conditions in Europe, but this would not affect profits before the fourth quarter of 1996.   SCA's profit after financial items of 1.67 billion crowns for the first six months of the year was a 43 percent fall on the earnings of 2.95 billion crowns reported for the same period in 1995. However, discounting a positive one-off item of 261 million crowns in the first half of last year, the fall was limited to 37 percent. In its six-month result statement, SCA said the stronger Swedish currency had reduced profits by 260 million crowns compared with the same 1995 period.   Sales for the period fell 14 percent to 28.68 billion crowns, with invoicing down in all of the divisions of the group. The hygiene business area, SCA's largest, noted a three percent decline in sales, but the company said sales would have increased by seven percent discounting the effects of the stronger crown. The division's operating profit increased 73 percent to 1.03 billion crowns, with much of the improvement in the tissue product area. The sales of the packaging business fell 24 percent, of which the effects of the stronger crown accounted for seven percentage points. However, lower prices for corrugated packaging and external liner sales resulted in a slump in operating profits to 615 million crowns from 1.42 billion crowns for the first half of last year. In its outlook for the rest of the year, SCA said the sharp decline in most product prices had slowed towards the end of the period, indicating that a run-down phase in stocks was over. Prospects for the rest of the year were reasonably bright if market expectations of a recovery in the European business cycle were fulfilled, SCA said. "This should result in a favourable market balance with subsequent price stability and, in some cases, price increases. However, there will be a delay until the fourth quarter before these effects are reflected in earnings," SCA said. SCA said on Tuesday it had reached an agreement with Kimberly-Clark on an exchange of operations in Britain and France. Under the deal, SCA will buy the Prudhoe mill in England, which has an annual capacity of 80,000 tonnes. SCA said its Hygiene Paper tissue operations would have a 15 percent market share in Britain. In return, Kimberly Clark will take over SCA Molnlycke's Peaudouce brand name for baby nappies in France, SCA said. -- Stockholm newsroom +46-8-700 1006