Spain's first maize is being harvested in the southern region of Andalusia after a severe drought all but obliterated output there last year, agricultural experts said. Spain's total maize crop is likely to surge to 3.6-4.0 million tonnes this year, from 2.6 million last year, farmers' association and Agriculture Ministry forecasts show. Producers say this puts production back at a normal level. The bulk of Spanish maize comes from the northern region of Aragon and harvesting does not get under way until mid-October, a spokesman for maize producers' association AGPME said. So far, the prospects are good in the north, with around 25 percent more hectares planted this year from last. "So far everything's going well. We've planted more this year than last and we're expecting a yield of around nine tonnes per hectare," a spokesman said. "The harvest is likely to be qualified as normal, both in terms of quality and quantity," he said. There had been talk of a delay in the maturing of the crop because of rain, but plantings have managed to compensate for this effect during the summer, he said. Down in Andalusia so far around 40 percent of the regional crop has been now been collected, farmers' association ASAJA estimates. This may account for around five to 10 percent of the total national crop. "The harvest advances quite quickly, so I'd estimate by tomorrow we'll have about half in," technical expert Jose Vasquez said. However quality in the south has not been particularly good, with humidity levels so far at around 14 percent on average although this figure should decline, he said. Generally this kind of maize is used for animal feed, he said. According to ASAJA, maize yields in the southern regions of Seville and Cordoba this year should be almost 11 tonnes per hectare. Yields vary widely from region to region in Spain, and are much higher than in other areas of Europe. Estimates from the Ministry of Agriculture for average maize yields nationally are around 8.8 tonnes per hectare this year, although traders say this forecast may be optimistic. Extremadura, the southwestern region next due to harvest maize, should have completed its task by the end of September, Vasquez said. This year the Agriculture Ministry is forecasting a 20.6 million tonne total Spanish cereal crop, around double last year's total. -- Madrid newsroom +341 585 2160