What do the author Henry James, the rock group Queen and the late New York artist Jean-Michel Basquiat have in common? Just check out the programme of the Venice Film Festival. Many of the films at Venice this year look to other art forms -- literature, music or visual arts -- for inspiration. Continuing cinema's fascination in recent years with 19th century literature, New Zealand-born director Jane Campion will unveil her adaptation of James's novel "Portrait of a Lady" in an out-of-competition screening. The film, starring Nicole Kidman and John Malkovich, has its world premiere on September 6. German director Volker Schlondorff also turned to the written word for his film "The Ogre" based on the 1970 novel by French writer Michel Tournier, "The Erl-King". The World War Two drama also stars Malkovich. "Michel Tournier's book both fascinated and frightened me," Schlondorff said in an interview released by publicists. "It is a very French view of Germany, a kind of realist fairy tale," he said. "It's the story of someone who is nothing at home and who, once dragged into the war, suddenly believes his destiny is coming to pass and that great things are waiting for him." Another book-turned-film competing at Venice is Colombian director Sergio Cabrera's "Ilona Llega con la Lluvia" (Ilona Arrives with the Rain), based on the novel by the same name by fellow Colombian Alvaro Mutis. The New York City art scene is scrutinised in "Basquiat", which is also competing for the Golden Lion prize to be awarded on September 7, the final day of the festival. The film, about the life of artist Basquiat who died of a heroin overdose in 1988, is the directing debut of artist Julian Schnabel, who was Basquiat's friend. Singer David Bowie appears in the film as Basquiat's mentor, pop art legend Andy Warhol. Queen, the British rock group whose flamboyant lead singer Freddie Mercury died of AIDS in 1991, is featured in "Made in Heaven", a compilation of seven short films produced by the British Film Institute. It was shown out of competition at a private screening on Wednesday, the festival's opening day. French director Jean-Luc Godard also evokes music in his entry, "Forever Mozart", set in Sarajevo during Bosnia's war. The film is made up of four loosely-linked vignettes about efforts by artists to continue their trade despite the fighting. Godard dedicated the final segment to a young pianist who performs a Mozart piano concerto in the film. But not all movies at Venice are so artistically-inclined. One character from a real-life drama is making his acting debut. Bernard Tapie, France's former businessman, soccer boss and cabinet minister until the collapse of his business empire in 1994, will be starring in Claude Lelouch's "Hommes, femmes, mode d'emploi" (Men, Women, Instructions for Use). Tapie, who is appealing two jail sentences imposed for tax fraud and rigging a soccer match, plays an over-stressed lawyer. Lelouch said during filming that he hired Tapie because he was so impressed by his magnetic personality. "He's a born actor," he said. The film will be screened on September 4.