Iraq expressed regret on Thursday that no consensus had been reached on a global nuclear test ban treaty, saying the failure could damage the credibility of the Conference on Disarmament. Ambassador Barzan Ibrahim Al-Tikriti, half-brother of Iraqi leader Saddam Hussein, also said the international community was seeking total disarmament and destruction of nuclear weapons worldwide. It was the first time the Iraqi delegation had addressed the main United Nations-sponsored negotiating forum on disarmament since being admitted to the Geneva talks last June. India prevented the 61-nation conference from reaching consensus last week on a draft Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty (CTBT) which would prohibit all nuclear explosions. However, Australia has vowed to bring the text to the U.N. General Assembly next month for signature and is marshalling support from other non-nuclear states, according to diplomats. Barzan said that his country supported the current draft. "It is really regrettable that the text provided by the chairman of the ad hoc committee for a nuclear test ban...has not met with consensus," he said in a speech made in Arabic. "Hence, the conference has faced a difficult situation that might affect its credibility as the sole negotiation forum for disarmament affairs," he added. The Geneva forum is expected to resume negotiations, launched in March 1995, to halt production of fissile material used in nuclear weapons -- plutonium and highly-enriched uranium. As wrapping up the CTBT negotiations was given top priority, it has made virtually no progress on the fissile "cut-off" talks in the last 17 months, according to delegates. Formerly head of Iraqi intelligence, Barzan has served for years as Iraq's ambassador to the U.N. European headquarters in Geneva and also has cabinent rank as presidential adviser. Barzan said that total nuclear disarmament was vital to promoting international security, improving international relations and consolidating "confidence among states". But he made no reference to international inspectors trying to rid Iraq of weapons of mass destruction, as set forth under the  terms of the 1991 Gulf War ceasefire. Iraq and 22 other countries -- including Israel and Syria -- were admitted to the Geneva talks last June in a compromise deal ending a long standoff over Baghdad's participation. The United States had blocked the conference's expansion three years ago, arguing that Iraq should not be allowed to hold veto power on the conference -- which takes decisions by consensus -- while still subject to U.N. economic sanctions. Under the compromise, the 23 new members immediately gave written pledges not to individually veto the conference decisions during the first two years of their membership. After that date, any of the 23 states under sanctions defined by chapter seven of the U.N. charter would be unable to wield its veto. The conference successfully negotiated the Chemical Weapons Convention, signed in Paris in January 1993. But the pact to ban chemical weapons has yet to come into force as the required 65 ratifications have not yet been reached.