Health spending emerged on Thursday as the biggest bone of contention in talks on the crucial 1997 budget between Spain's new conservative government and its Catalan nationalist allies in parliament. "It looks as if this has turned into the main point of dispute," said a spokeswoman for the Catalan government's health department. The government of Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar started budget talks on Wednesday with the Catalans, whose support it needs to pass a 1997 spending plan, and ran into trouble right away over its proposals to cut health spending in order to help Spain qualify for Economic and Monetary Union (EMU). "There's a certain discrepancy over spending criteria for health in 1997," the Catalans' economic spokesman in parliament, Francesc Homs, told a radio interviewer on Thursday. "This is probably the only issue in the social domain where we don't agree, but I don't think this difference is hopeless. We will have to study it a bit more." Aznar's Popular Party (PP) government needs to trim the overall public-sector deficit by at least a trillion pesetas ($8 billion) to meet next year's European monetary union target. It wants to cut overall spending by around one percent in real terms and has proposed introducing small charges for prescriptions and basic medical services as a means of curbing burgeoning health costs. The Catalans oppose any reduction in health spending. On top of this, they want an extra 200 billion pesetas of central government funding to be transferred to the seven autonomous regions, including theirs, that run their own health services. Of this, some 30 billion would correspond to Catalonia. "The health system in the whole of Spain in 1997 will have higher costs than the government estimates," Homs said. The economy ministry in Madrid declined to comment. Catalan spokesmen said they agree with the government on the general lines of the budget, implying there will be a final agreement. If the Catalans' objections stop Aznar from trimming health spending, which accounts for more than five percent of gross domestic product, the axe will have to cut deeper into other areas if Spain is to remain on course for monetary union. The government must present its draft budget to parliament by the end of September. Since it does not have a majority of its own, it will be unable to approve it without the Catalans' 16 votes and support from its minor allies in the moderate Basque Nationalist Party or in the Canary Islands coalition. -- Madrid newsroom, + 34 1 585 2151 $=125 pesetas