Iberia said it has no plans to return its central European freighter to Frankfurt airport after 18 months despite a 50 percent cut in freighter night landing fees at the airport. Miguel Herter, cargo manager Germany, Austria, Scandinavia, told Reuters in an interview the airline's four times a week McDonnell Douglas DC-8 freighter would continue its Maastricht to Madrid feeder services. Frankfurt has offered airlines which switch day freighter services to the night or start new night freighter flights a 50 percent landing fee cut in a bid to stop a cargo standstill at the airport. But Herter said: "At the moment I see no need to return with the freighter. The 50 percent night landing fee cut is not interesting because the handling costs are still too expensive." He said Iberia moved its freighter out of Frankfurt in April 1995 after many years due to lower costs at the Dutch airport. "We moved the freighter on cost grounds because Frankfurt was too expensive. It is ten times more expensive than Maastricht," he said. The high cost structure of Germany means high handling rates are charged, but the Netherlands is cheaper because of lower costs, he said. "The Dutch airports profit from this. It is a development which cannot be stopped because Germany produces too expensively," he said. Herter said Iberia carried 8,397 tonnes of German freight last year, a fall of 10 percent due partially to less available capacity following the freighter move to Maastricht. "This year we expect about 8,000 tonnes," he said. Herter added: "We had a minus of 1.3 percent up to the end of July but a net revenue increase of 2.85 percent." Iberia trucks German goods to Maastricht and also 36 hours to Madrid on an ad-hoc basis if the Maastricht freighter is full, he said. Cargo capacity is also available on the weekly Aerolineas Argentinas Maastricht-Madrid-Buenos Aires freighter flight and on 190 passenger flights of Iberia group airlines from Germany, he added. --AIr Cargo Newsroom Tel+44-171-542-7706 Fax +44-171-542-5017