Separatist guerrillas bombed a government office on the French Mediterranean island of Corsica on Thursday despite fresh warnings of a crackdown by Paris, police said. In the latest of a series of attacks, a two kg (4.4 lb) bomb seriously damaged Agriculture Ministry offices in the centre of the island capital Ajaccio, police said. The blast, just 50 metres (yards) from a police station, followed by a day a warning of a new "get-tough" policy by Paris toward the separatists, who seek greater autonomy. Interior Minister Jean-Louis Debre, under fire for staging secret talks with one of the largest of several rival underground nationalist groups, told the daily La Corse in a statement he had given "firm orders" to police to round up those responsible for the bombings and bring them to justice. Judges on the island had accused Paris of taking a lax stance on guerrilla violence while conducting secret but widely-reported talks with separatists which have now failed. The latest bombing, close on the heels of the new orders, appeared to emphasise police impotence, some officials and commentators said. "No searches, no arrests, no police reinforcements visible on the island despite the ministry's promises," the daily France-Soir lamented. "On the island, as at the Place Beauvau (the Interior Ministry's Paris address), people are well aware who is who and who is doing what. It is time to end this nightly farce," said the pro-government daily Le Figaro in an editorial. No one immediately claimed responsibility for Thursday's blast, the 22nd to strike the resort island since mid-August, when separatist guerrillas ended a shaky seven-month truce. Corsica has been racked by low-level separatist-inspired violence, principally directed against government targets, for two decades, but the pace of the bombings has picked up markedly since separatist guerrillas buried the truce. The daily Le Monde reported on Wednesday some separatist movements were considering taking their attacks to the French mainland on the principle that "300 grammes of explosives on the continent have more impact than 300 kilos in Corsica". The newspaper said separatists may take advantage of social unrest widely expected on the mainland in coming weeks over government austerity plans to stoke a popular backlash against the government.