The European Union is likely to come under further pressure to restore export subsidies for its wheat on Thursday amid renewed competition for international supplies and promising harvests, grain traders said. Grain houses are bidding for EU wheat at a weekly auction aware that Brussels is unwilling to relax its export tax policy but also faces a better wheat crop than previously thought. The EU last week rejected traders' bids for export subsidies and granted 145,350 tonnes of soft wheat at a minimum tax of 1.27 Ecus per tonne, equating to $184 per tonne or around nine dollars more than soft red winter.   EU officials believe they can maintain a premium for their wheat over U.S. supplies while avoiding traditional export subsidies because of crop quality fears in the United States. But fragile world prices and a six percent rise in EU wheat output to 85 million tonnes this year mean Brussels has less scope to sell at firm prices, traders said. Egypt bought up to 200,000 tonnes of French wheat at what traders called a market-busting price of $178 per tonne fob. To match that sale for October shipment the EU would need to award a subsidy of some 2.5 Ecus per tonne, traders calculated. To match soft red winter it would need to pay 3.8 Ecus.   For North African importers like Algeria and Morocco, traders said they needed a refund of three to four Ecus. EU officials stressed, however, that the war on high internal wheat prices which caused the subsidies to be withdrawn last year was not yet over. At 890-895 francs per tonne for Rouen delivery in September, plus carrying charges, French wheat is "still too high," one official said. On a fob basis, and including the twice-monthly carry of 3.64 francs per tonne from August 1, French wheat is still nearly 10 percent over intervention levels, others said.   In Germany and Britain the gap is narrower, they said. To maintain the same French fob export price as last week, the EU would have to tax wheat by around 0.54 Ecus per tonne at Thursday's tender, trade analysts said. To keep a constant premium of some nine dollars over soft red winter wheat it would have to tax exports by 0.8 Ecus per tonne. Bids are due to be considered by the EU's cereals management committee in Brussels later on Thursday. --Paris newsroom +331 4221 5146