Global media came under fire at the first world congress on commercial sexual exploitation of children on Thursday for using youngsters' sexuality to sell products. British actor Roger Moore, a goodwill ambassador for the United Nations Children's Fund (UNICEF), told the third day of the five day conference that the so-called Lolita syndrome, when the media portrays young girls as sexy, was irresponsible. "Increasingly we see images of young children whose sexuality is used to sell products in the advertising market and to titillate and to tease," Moore told a conference panel. "Even non-child models are increasingly chosen for their childlike bodies. The line between sexually ready and way too young is being lowered." Moore told the conference, attended by over 1,000 delegates from 130 countries, that when the film "Lolita" first appeared in 1962, depicting a 12-year-old girl seducing an elderly lodger in her family home, it was scandalous. "Now we see Lolitas everywhere, not only in films but also on advertising boards, in glossy magazines, and in music videos on TV ... but to hardly a murmur," he said. But with the conference held in the shadow of a horrifying child sex-abuse scandal unfolding in Belgium, Moore said he was glad to see that a remake of "Lolita," based on Vladimir Nabokov's novel, was yet to find a distributor. Some U.S. and British critics have savaged Adrian Lyne, director of steamy "9 1/2 Weeks" and "Fatal Attraction", after reports of sex scenes between actor Jeremy Irons and an adult stand-in for co-star Dominique Swain, 14. Britain's Daily Mail said: "Let us be sure that the new, authentic, honest, fearless and explicit film version of this dreary and poisonous tract in our misbegotten times gets its just reward -- critical obloquy." The Belgian case has triggered a Europe-wide search to detail a paedophile ring in which young girls were abducted, sexually abused and filmed. Some were even left to die. The conference was told the media has to look at its role in combating a multi-billion dollar child sex industry. UNICEF estimates one million children a year are forced into either child prostitution, sold for sexual purposes or used in child pornography. Aidan White, secretary general of the International Federation of Journalists (IFJ), said the media needed to review the way it portrayed children. "(Children) should not be portrayed as hopeless, helpless, vulnerable, faceless individuals," he told the media panel. He said the Stockholm conference should produce "concrete ideas for helping journalists to raise this issue, to report on this issue, and to make it part and parcel of the democratic discussion for which we're responsible". The conference has heard repeated calls for unified action globally to tackle the sexual exploitation of children, discussing ways different industries can take action. Ray Wyre from Britain's Lucy Faithful Foundation said a global approach was vital as was more monitoring of people dealing with children on a day-to-day basis. "Why is it that three male teachers suspended from a school in England are now teaching in Bangkok?" Wyre asked the conference. "Why was a teacher in the UK who died of AIDS nicknamed Mr Feeler for 15 years and no-one did anything? "We have got to have a coordinated response and become more global in the way we deal with this problem." The conference is organised by the Swedish government, UNICEF, pressure group End Child Prostitution in Asia Tourism and a non-governmental organisation on the rights of the child.