AOL Bertelsmann Online GmbH, the computer service joint venture between America Online and Bertelsmann AG, has begun selling online advertising in Europe but expects advertising revenue to be moderate for several years. Wilfried Sorge, AOL Bertelsmann marketing director for Europe, told Reuters on Thursday that in addition to the newly-formed AdOn GmbH in Germany, similar firms would be set up in Britain by the end of the year and in France next year. Once AOL Bertelsmann services are rolling in the three largest European markets, AdOn will probably form a European holding company to market online advertising for AOL and third parties, he said in an interview at his Hamburg office. "We don't only want to sell advertising time for AOL but also for others," he said. "We are in talks with a large search engine on the Internet. He declined to elaborate. A search engine is a directory service that helps users find specific pages and services on the Internet. Some of the most popular are Yahoo!, Alta Vista and Lycos. AdOn has contracts to sell online advertising for the online health service BS Medic, half-owned by Bertelsmann. Prices for ads are based on "hits" -- the number of times a page is called up on the AOL service. For 50,000 hits on a button on an AOL page, the cost would be 9,000 marks ($6,093) for a minimum of four weeks and up to three months. If the same button were on AOL's home page on the Internet's World Wide Web, it would cost 6,000 marks. "Next year our advertising revenue will be more than a million marks and in two years between 10 and 20 million," said Sorge. "If we could gain five percent of the total German media advertising market, we would be very satisfied." Net advertising revenue for all of German media is forecast to rise around six percent to 38.5 billion marks this year. Analysts are certain that online services and the World Wide Web, the graphical part of the Internet, will eventually be a huge market for advertisers. But after an initial period of euphoria, most forecasts now see only moderate expansion. MediaGruppe Munich, a research group, predicts that total turnover generated on the Internet in Germany for advertising, services, trade, access provision, software, marketing and content will total $809 million in the year 2000. Sorge, 53, has been involved with German media for over 20 years, much of that time with magazine publisher Gruner + Jahr. He most recently oversaw the launch of Radio Hamburg, the northern German city's leading commercial radio station. While AOL's global subscriber base totals more than six million, the nine month old European project has 200,000. Around two thirds of the members are in Germany, with Britain taking up most of the rest and a small number in France. "In Europe we will never reach the numbers seen in the United States. It's a smaller, splintered market and that's why we are thinking about alternative revenue sources," he said. Because of the non-commercial roots of the Internet, online services are treading softly when it comes to integrating advertising into their services. But digital technology also gives them tools unavailable to other electronic media. One simple example of digital advertising is the "hot link", which allows a viewer to jump to another section of the service or onto the Internet by clicking on it. Most commercial pages on online services and the Web now also carry banners advertising products and services that also serve as links to more information or a company's Web page. "This type of advertising has a different quality. You decide if you want to look at it, whether or not to click on it. It has to be more informative and attractive," he said. Through digital technology AOL is able to find target groups on its service, providing advertising with coveted demographic information. AOL Bertelsmann is currently preparing a demographic study of its membership for this purpose. ($1=1.4770 Mark)