The head of Britain's farmers union called on Wednesday for an urgent meeting with ministers to discuss a report which said a mad cow epidemic would die out by 2001 without a planned mass cull of cattle. "I hope the government will now make it clear they believe there is a better way of dealing with this issue," National Farmers Union president Sir David Naish told BBC radio. The report by scientists at Oxford University could well reopen a damaging row between Britain and the EU, which slapped a ban on British beef after the government said there could be a link between BSE and the human form of mad cow disease. Naish said there was no need for Britain to carry out a planned cull of some 147,000 cattle to which it had reluctantly agreed to placate its European partners. "The new evidence to me means some of that proposal should be re-examined because we could get away with considerably less animals being culled if in fact scientists throughout Europe accepted this evidence," Naish said. But this seems highly unlikely after comments by an EU agricultural spokesman on Wednesday who suggested the ban should be kept in place longer than planned in the light of evidence that BSE could be spread from mothers to calves. Any step in this direction could well trigger more internal strife over Europe within the the ruling Conservative Party, with more nationalist party members doing their best to put the party on a collision course with Brussels. British Prime Minister John Major at first ordered his ministers to block EU business in protest at the EU ban. But the row was patched up in June, with leaders agreeing a step-by-step lifting of the ban in return for a cull of some 147,000 cattle most likely to be infected. "I have been saying consistently since the selective cull was proposed that we didn't believe it was scientifically based. It was a political expedient to satisfy some of the other member states in Europe, going as far as it did," said Naish. The Oxford scientists, writing in the scientific journal Nature, said it would be hard to get rid of the disease any faster without slaughtering vast numbers of cattle. The researchers predicted there would be 340 new infections and 14,000 new cases of BSE before 2001. They said about 446,000 infected animals were eaten before the use of infected organs was banned in 1989, and 283,000 more before restrictions were tightened last December. But the report added it was still uncertain how many people would get the human form of Bovine Spongiform Encephalopathy from eating infected beef. Scientists decided BSE was caused by feeding cows the rendered remains of sheep that had scrapie, a similar brain-wasting disease. The government banned this type of feed and introduced rules to keep infected beef products out of the food supply. But in March government scientists admitted that people could become infected with Creutzfeldt-Jakob Disease (CJD), a deadly brain illness, from eating mad cow-infected beef.