The UK's Investment Management Regulatory Organisation (IMRO) said on Thursday it had fined Jardine Fleming Asset Management (JFAM) and three other companies in the Robert Fleming group a total of 700,000 stg. IMRO also said it had ended the registration of Robert Thomas, the former chief executive of JFAM. Thomas had accepted this termination, an IMRO official told Reuters.   RFAM said in a statement it had accepted IMRO's findings "concering nine portfolios managed on behalf of three subsidiary companies by Jardine Fleming Investment Management (JFIM)". These subsidiaries were Fleming Investment Management, Fleming Investment Trust Management and Save & Prosper Securities, it added. JFIM is the asset management arm of Jardine Fleming in Hong Kong. "We accepte these findings and regret the breaches which gave rise to them," said Paul Bateman, chairman of RFAM. RFAM said the IMRO findings were related to the compliance monitoring of JFIM and the inadequate disclosure of commission.   RFAM said Jardine Fleming had brough a number of issues relating to JFIM's dealing procedures to IMRO's attention in 1995. Both Robert Fleming and Jardine Fleming participated in the ensuing regulatory investigation. It said the IMRO findings had "no bearing on any portfolios managed by Robert Fleming companies in London or elsewhere". The fines imposed by IMRO resulted from the fact that the three subsidiaries had delegated the management of a number of portfolios to JFIM and "were therefore responsible for putting in place adequate arrangements to ensure (these) were managed in accordance with IMRO standards".   "Effective action has been taken to strengthen both the monitoring of JFIM by Robert Fleming and reporting structures within RFAM itself," the statement addded. It said a series of measures, including the progressive introduction of centralised dealing, had been taken to address the problems identified in JFIM. "Compliance procedures have been completely reviewed and brought fully into line with best UK practice. RFAM has worked closely with JFIM to bring about these changes," it added. RFAM said it had also made senior management changes to strengthen the business management structure.   This change in management structure would also "add a sharper focus to its compliance procedures", it said. JFAM said while the problems at JFIM meant there had been a potential for client disadvantage, "an independent investigation by a firm of accountants has not identified an actual disadvantage to any IMRO client". IMRO said in a statement that in view of the seriousness of the compliance failings, JFAM had accepted the termination of its authorisation. IMRO's investigation was caried out in conjunction with the Hong Kong Securities and Futures Commission (SFC).   "IMRO's investigation has amply illustrated the danger of firms paying insufficient attention to the responsibilities that arise when they delegate business to another entity, whether in the UK or overseas," said Phillip Thorpe, IMRO chief executive. "Other firms would be well advised to review thoroughly their own arrangements relating to delegated functions," he added. -- Alexander Smith, London Newsroom ++ 44 171 542 7719