It's the garish jackets that worry the staid English commodity traders. September sees a landmark market merger between the racy London International Financial Futures Exchange (LIFFE) and Europe's oldest tropical products mart -- the smaller, 40-year-old tradition-bound London Commodity Exchange (LCE). Traders in coffee, cocoa and sugar agree that in an era of cut throat competition their exchange needed a merger to rescue it from possible U.S. takeover and ensure long-term survival. Then, for traditionalists, came the culture shock. Word went round that come September LCE traders must conform with practice on big world exchanges like LIFFE and don lurid jackets, colour coded to identify the firm they work for, when they enter the trading pits. "We wear colours in the pit to identify which trader belongs to which company. By his jacket you can tell from miles away -- you don't even have to recognise his face -- which company he works for," said a LIFFE options trader. For traders at LIFFE, pronounced "Life" and where trading is in crowded open outcry pits, that may be necessary. But it's different in the cosy, sometimes relaxed commodity community, where volumes are just a fraction of those in financial futures and where dealers deal in a ring rather than a pit, and traders say the jackets are unecessary. "Down here at the ring we all know each other...We are so close that everyone knows every one else's grandparents," said an LCE coffee trader. "At the LCE we could trade blindfold," said another. The gulps over the claret among older LCE men reflected concern about marked differences of style, and scale, that promise to shake up a quiet world. The merger of the two exchanges, secured after LIFFE offered 10.3 million pounds ($16.04 million) for the LCE, will create on September 16 the only organisation in the world to trade a complete range of financial, commodity and equity futures and options. "(For coffee) the great advantage of this merger means that coffee will be traded in one of the world's greatest futures exchanges which has the resources to support and develop the contract and that can only be of long-term benefit to the coffee industry," Robin Woodhead, LCE chairman told Reuters. Traders and analysts see the merger as a boon to liquidity and turnover. The argument is that on a quiet day in the financial pits locals, who trade on their own books, will seek excitement by crossing to the pit of the volatile coffee market. Coffee futures, hypersensitive to weather news and talk of frosts in Brazil, have been on a rollercoaster for two years. The benchmark contract jumped to a near 10-year high of $4,140 a tonne in 1994 after a frost in Brazil then slid to a 27-month low of $1,496 last month when another frost, eagerly awaited, failed to materialise. "The most important aspect of the merger will take place when the LCE and LIFFE join location and when traders will be allowed to switch pits," Lawrence Eagles, commodity analyst at London-based brokers GNI told Reuters. The issue of co-location is being examined, with joint residency, either within the existing LIFFE building, or at the London Stock Exchange, expected within the next two years. But problems are expected when LCE meets LIFFE. "Trading in financial futures is impersonal...The commodities business has always been more personal. You can touch, eat and drink commodities...It is a more human market and those are the trading attitudes that prevail," said one commodity broker. Traders and brokers say they fear the dilution, for instance, of controls that the LCE management has over rules, regulations and the degree of representation the commodity markets will have in LIFFE policy-making. But Woodhead said traders should not be concerned. "Clearly, for LIFFE it is a very important step...And one of the reasons for merging with the LCE was to maintain the expertise of the LCE," he said. "For that reason there will be a separately identified commodity division within LIFFE." This would ensure the continuation of scales relating to marketing, the robusta coffee contract, management, warehousing, delivery and supervision. Woodhead said a specific Commodity Committee, made up of broad industry representation, will be created. "In the case of coffee, for instance, we will want to ensure that the coffee advisory group will be fully representative of the industry as a whole," he said. Commodity representatives will also sit on LIFFE's key membership and rules committee and the floor committee. "No less importantly, at the outset (September 16) there will be four board members on the LIFFE board who will be representing the commodity interest," said Woodhead. Despite the reassurances, some traders are wary. "As things become bigger it will be more difficult to allow distinctions for what are essentially very different markets," said one. ($1=.6421 Pound)