Japan would not reject requests for two-way trade talks with the United States or any other nation, but any agreements forged must obey world trade rules, a senior Japanese trade official said on Thursday. "Bilateral talks will be held to resolve problems, but they should be bilateral talks in the context of multilateral trade rules and framework," Hisashi Hosokawa, vice minister for international trade affairs, told a news conference. "The outcome should be judged by whether it is consistent with multilateral rules." U.S. Commerce Secretary Mickey Kantor on Wednesday delivered a blunt warning to Japan -- don't expect any letup in U.S. pressure for more open Japanese markets if President Bill Clinton is re-elected in November. "Let me be adamant about one thing," Kantor said. "I don't envisage the day when we can back down from putting bilateral pressure on Japan to open their market." Kantor said good progress had been made in all but one of the 21 U.S.-Japan trade deals struck since Clinton took office. But he added: "There will be a need for some more agreements." Hosokawa, however, says he does not foresee future two-way deals. "I don't know what sort of possibility you have in mind when you say 'bilateral agreement'. I can't see any," he told Reuters in an interview this week. "We have solved the auto issue, we have solved the semiconductor issue. What else?" The two nations stepped back from the brink of trade war last year to forge a pact on access to Japan's car and car parts markets. Early this month they settled a long-running spat over microchip trade. Disputes over civil aviation, photographic film and insurance remain unresolved. Japanese trade officials have been beating the multilateral drum on trade for years, and now that Japan's trade surplus is finally falling, they hope to shift disputes to global bodies such as the Geneva-based World Trade Organisation (WTO). Washington, in a move some saw as a nod to criticism from Tokyo and other trade partners of its penchant for unilateral trade sanctions, took complaints about alleged barriers in Japan's photo film market to the WTO earlier this year. Hosokawa, however, declined to say whether Japan might complain to the WTO over U.S. moves to block the sale of Japanese-made supercomputers in the United States. "There are many things we have to look into...so give us more time," he said. "If it is an invisible trade barrier, we may have to consider further steps." U.S. supercomputer maker Cray Research Inc filed a petition on July 29 with the Commerce Department alleging that Japanese electronics firm NEC Corp was selling supercomputers in the United States at less than fair prices. The U.S. National Center for Atmospheric Research tentatively agreed on May 20 to buy four NEC supercomputer systems. But earlier this month the government-funded National Science Foundation, which is the primary funding agency, said it was withholding approval to buy the supercomputers until the dumping allegations were resolved.