The first offered price for shares of West Japan Railway Co (JR West) was fixed on Thursday lower than investors had initially expected but individuals are still wary about investing in privatisation issues, analysts said. Too many had been burned when Japan Tobacco Inc (JT) and East Japan Railway Co (JR East) went public and share prices plummeted, they said. JR West's 950,000 shares were set at 357,000 yen ($3,305) per share. The offer is mainly aimed at individual investors. The other 750,000 shares were auctioned on Tuesday to institutional investors. The shares will be listed on the Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya and other Japanese stock exchanges on October 8. Some brokers said the price might whet the appetites of some individual investors because the offer price was lower than 400,000 yen ($3,703,) the price investors had expected before the auction, but others said investors still do not trust shares of privatised firms. True sentiment is difficult to assess because of pressure by the government to suppress negative comments about the shares, some brokers said, who declined to named. One said Japanese securities houses had been warned by the financial authorities not to comment on JR West to the media. "We are cautiously recommending JR West shares for long-term holdings for individual investors. The shares are attractive, as interest rates have remained low," one broker said. But a chief strategist at a Japanese securities house's research institute said uncertainties about JR West's future earnings are making retail investors hesitant to take the shares for the long term. He expects the share price to climb by one percent at the most. "The shares (of JR West) tend to invite quick profit-taking when they are listed," he said. "As for this issue, individual investors have little hope for long-term holdings," he said. "When the government has not solved the problem of the former huge debts of Japanese National Railways (which was privatised and broken up into JR West and other railway firms), the investors are worried that each part of the railway group might have to take over some of the debts," he said. JR West was the second railway firm to go public. The whole burden of debts on the JNR was more than 27 trillion yen ($250 billion). To help to reduce the accumulated debts, the government has tried to sell privatisation issues at high prices. "Individual investors are still suspicious about privatisation issues because they had been offered initially at high prices and they collapsed later," said a chief trader at a foreign securities house in Japan. He also said sales right after JR West shares' listing could trigger falls in the other government-related issues, such as JR East and JT. The previous offerings of the formerly government-owned firms destroyed the market myth that such privatisation offers would bring healthy gains. JT shares were initially sold at a hefty 1,438,000 yen ($13,300) per share when the monopoly went public in October 1994, but quotations have never surpassed the public offer price. It ended trading on Thursday at 798,000 yen ($7,388). Shares in JR East were listed in October 1993. The public offer price was 380,000 yen ($3,518) each and it climbed to 600,000 yen ($5,555) when the issue was listed. The share price closed at 513,000 yen ($4,750) on Thursday. ($1=108)