A senior Burmese leader on Thursday criticised Western activists campaigning for economic isolation of the Asian nation, saying firms that withdrew from Burma over human rights concerns would hurt only themselves. Neither political pressure nor recent decisions by major companies to pull out of Burma could slow its economic bandwagon, said planning and development minister Brigadier-General David Abel in China's southwestern Kunming city. "(It will have) absolutely no impact at all," Abel told Reuters in an interview during a conference on regional economic cooperation. "They came of their own free own will...They withdrew of their own free will. They stand more to lose than they gain." A number of major Western firms have in recent months cut or scaled back investment in Burma after intense lobbying by activists protesting against its human rights record. The leader of Burma's democratic oppostition, Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi, is spearheading a campaign for sanctions to pile pressure on the military State Law and Order Restoration Council (SLORC). Businessmen have said the SLORC crackdown on the democracy movement is likely to hurt efforts to attract foreign investment, but Abel said Burma's experience of self-imposed isolation before opening up in 1988 made the withdrawal of firms such as Dutch brewer Heineken and Denmark's Carlsberg no threat. Investors from elsewhere stood ready to take the place of those who left, he said. "We isolated ourselves for 26 years, we didn't have Heineken, we didn't have anything," he said. "These sort of things are just consumer items. Anybody is willing to replace them. We have offers already." Burma's economy surged over the past four years, with average annual gross domestic product growth of 8.2 percent. Abel lashed out at a report from the U.S. embassy in Rangoon last month that cast doubt on such growth figures, calling the report a slanted and unprofessional attack. "They want to discredit us, that's all," he said. Pressures for Western economic action against Burma grew in May when the SLORC rounded up more than 250 members of Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy to try to block a party congress. The U.S. Senate last month paved the way for possible future sanctions on Rangoon if political repression increased. European activists have stepped up campaigns against companies involved in Burma since the death in a Rangoon jail in June of Danish honorary consul James Nichols. Campaigners say public support has never been stronger, but Abel dismissed them as undemocractic and unrepresentative. "I think the activists may be one holiday worker sitting in his room...typing out some malicious letters during the weekend," he said. Burmese officals in Kunming have been discussing ways to boost regional cooperation at a conference organised by the Asian Development Bank (ADB). Differences over how to deal with Rangoon have put the ADB in a delicate position. While some Western nations seek to increase pressure on Burma, its neigbours in the Association of Southeast Asian Nations reject santions and are pursuing a policy of "constructive engagement".