A four-month bull run by China's domestic A share markets has been halted by interim results which were worse than expected, analysts said on Thursday, but they expect the markets to resume their charge next month. Cuts in bank interest rates, financial support by banks to listed companies and an easier monetary policy will stimulate the economy that will in turn improve results of listed companies for the rest of the year, they said. More than 40 percent of firms which have announced 1996 interim results so far have reported falls in net profits compared with the same period last year, including some key companies such as Shanghai Petrochemical Co, brokers said. All results must be published by August 31. "The results as a whole are the worst since China revived the stock markets in 1990," said one broker with China Guotai Securities. "They have seriously depressed market sentiment, disrupting a four-month bull run." "The reason for the poor results is the national austerity policy and oversupply of products in some sectors, especially in real estate, construction materials and machinery," he said. Among the victims were real estate developer Zhujiang Industrial Co whose net profit in first-half 1996 fell 46.4 percent and glassmaker Shanghai Yaohua Pilkington Glass Co whose net profit fell 66.2 percent. But other sectors, such as taxis, power generation and pharmaceuticals, were less affected by the austerity policy and posted better than average results, the broker said. Another Chinese broker said the results reflected the effects of the three-year austerity policy that began in July 1993, with textile, electronics and other industrial companies and commercial firms among the worst hit sectors. "These results reflect the past but investors are buying the future," he said. "The worst of the austerity policy is behind us. I expect company results to improve during the rest of 1996." The Shanghai A index closed on Thursday at 824.328 points, down 1.03 percent from Wednesday's close and against 575.19 on December 31, 1995. It closed at 840.226 last Friday. The Shenzhen A index closed on Thursday at 263.52, up 1.67 percent from Wednesday and against 117.02 at the end of 1995. It closed at 253.10 points last Friday. China's A shares, denominated in yuan, are reserved for domestic investors. Foreign currency B shares can legally only be bought by investors outside China. But in practice, domestic investors account for up to 40 percent of B share trading in Shanghai and and an even higher percentage in Shenzhen, brokers say. Brokers said that economic growth would pick up after a second cut in interest rates last Friday, more support from banks and local governments for listed companies and an easier monetary policy. The cut in interest rates will persuade more people to invest in stocks rather than banks, the second broker said. "Foreigners say the A share market is a gambling casino but Chinese investors are the same as those in other countries," he said. "The difference is that our markets are small so the same fluctuations occur in a shorter time."