German luxury carmaker Audi AG, a unit of Volkswagen AG, said it would announce plans in coming years for two to three foreign finishing plants but has ruled out a U.S. plant for now. "You can be sure that plans for two or three new plants will announced in the next few years," Audi management board chairman Herbert Demel said in an interview. Demel would only say that Brazil, where VW has extensive operations, and India were "interesting candidates" but said there would be no new plant in the U.S. before 2000. "We are thinking about several potential sites, but we could imagine building where VW is currently located," he said. Brazil is widely rumoured to be the top site for Audi to build a plant to build its new compact A3 sedan, which is modeled on a similar platform of the VW Golf. Top Audi officials have said recently that A3 production in Brazil could reach about 25,000 to 30,000 vehicles per year. Audi is eyeing the South American market as a lucrative place to sell the new three-door vehicle, which fills a void at the lower price range of the carmaker's product line. Demel declined to predict the level of potential investment in the new plants, which would likely put together car pieces delivered from other countries, but said the expansion would likely be self-financed. He said any plant in India would have smaller production volumes than a site in Brazil but that India was being viewed as a strategic location for local delivery of the A6 luxury sedan. Audi is seeking an aggressive expansion into foreign countries. Demel has said he wants foreign sales by the year 2000 to account for about two-third of Audi's sales compared to the current level of about 55 percent. "We want to do everything to build as many Audis in Germany as possible and also build as many vehicles in foreign countries as needed," he said. "One must build cars as close to the market as possible. You cannot supply markets in South America or Asia only from Ingolstadt," Demel said. Demel said the foreign expansion was also aimed at reducing Audi's exposure to the strong mark, which burdened 1995 profits by about 300 million marks. "There is certainly a structural optimisation of currency flows within a company," through international expansion, he said. --John Gilardi, Frankfurt Newsroom, +49 69 756525