Finnish commentators fully expect the markka to be linked to Europe's Exchange Rate Mechanism, but while some expect a move very soon others think authorities will wait at least until after an October election. "It is completely clear that the markka will be linked," said Risto Uimonen, editorial writer at daily Helsingin Sanomat. "All the time the question has been more one of when, not whether." A markka-ERM link was unlikely shortly before the October 20 local government and European parliament polls, analysts said. Of 10 observers in a straw poll by Reuters on Tuesday and Wednesday, five were inclined to see a decision to link coming later while four expected an early move. One put even odds on a decision to peg either before or after the elections. "Their choice is September or November. I would think they would rather go in early than late," said one political insider, adding speculative pressures might increase if the widely anticipated decision failed to materialise. But ABB Treasury Center Finland president Kenneth Stenberg said chances of a post-election move were growing and financial markets would not mind being kept waiting. "It is starting to look more likely after (the election)," he said. "The market is absolutely sure that the ERM link is coming ... (waiting) is no problem. Strong confidence in the markka and in Finnish convergence will hold," he added. Those advocating a decision later said going for a peg prior to the elections may put unnecessarily sharp ammunition in the hands of the opposition to Finland's five-party coalition. Speaking on condition of anonymity, a long-time close observer of Finnish politics said "plenty of nationalistic chauvinism" was involved in a link of the markka to ERM. Populists may try to use this to put government parties in an unfavourable light, he said. "They (the government) are hardly eager to voluntarily promote that," he said. Esko Seppanen, a Leftist Alliance MP and outspoken critic of ERM and Economic and Monetary Union (EMU) gave one example: A peg would be evidence of "allegiance to Germany" and would "rob us of the possibility to ourselves affect the exchange rate", said Seppanen, who also sits on the Bank of Finland's board of parliamentary supervisors and is a candidate Euro MP. He said he expected a link after the elections. Another central bank supervisory board member, Kimmo Sasi of the Conservative Party, expected a move after the polls. "My view is that it is unlikely that a decision would be made before, but the important thing is that when it is made it is based on economic reasons, not political," Sasi said. "But from the government's point of view it might be politically inappropriate to decide on a link, say just two or three weeks before the elections," he said. The Bank of Finland's role in a link must not be ignored, some analysts said. Independent on monetary policy, it must work with government on a markka-ERM decision. The central bank's officials have repeatedly pointed out that the markka is stable already, and warned an ERM link may expose the currency to more speculative forces. "They are less than enthusiastic," one insider said. "But they have had to accept that something must be done." It was now "obvious that the Bank of Finland understand they have to play ball", said Uimonen at Helsingin Sanomat. The central bank was likely to stand by a view that the ERM environment might be volatile as long as convergence uncertainties elsewhere in Europe remained, analysts said; that would point to a link later rather than sooner. But some market analysts expect a link very soon: one theory is that the move will come before the September 20-21 meeting of European Union finance ministers, and a September 9-10 monetary committee meeting will prepare the ground. A September 18 date set for a meeting of the key Finnish economic council meeting could back this theory, by providing an opportunity to inform its highly influential members. And with the September 20-21 meeting due to rule on relations between so-called EMU 'ins' and 'outs' after the third stage of monetary union in 1999, Finland may seek a place in the 'ins' camp by setting a link ahead of the meeting, one analyst said. Juha Ahtola, chief economist at Merita Bank, had another reason to expect a quick decision to join. "This government has consistently wanted to demonstrate that it is capable of assertive decision-making. Why delay and let this issue remain open ahead of the elections," he said. Esko Torsti, head of market advisory at Enskilda in Helsinki agreed and expects a link within three weeks. "The most consistent element of this government's decision-making has been the unwavering commitment to EMU. There is absolutely no reason to delay," he said. --Helsinki Newsroom  +358 - 0 - 680 50 245