Controversial U.S. Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan has arrived in Libya, which had decided to award him a human rights prize worth $250,000, Libyan radio reported on Thursday. The U.S. Treasury Department in Washington on Wednesday denied Farrakhans application to receive the honorarium or $1 billion Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi had pledged to the Nation of Islam after meeting Farrakhan in Libya last January. Libyan radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), said Farrakhan had arrived in the Libyan capital Tripoli. At a Tuesday news conference in Chicago, Farrakhan had said he planned to return to Tripoli to receive the humanitarian award that Gaddafi gives annually. He was apparently already on his way to the Libyan capital when the Treasury decision was announced and it was not immediately known how it might affect his plans. I would like to thank the people of the Jamahiriyah (Libya), our brother Colonel Muammar Gaddafi and the committee which decided to award me this years Gaddafi international human rights prize, Libyan radio on Thursday quoted Farrakhan as saying in a statement. Richard Newcomb, director of the U.S. Treasury branch that oversees travel and trade restrictions against U.S. citizens dealing with Libya, had cited among reasons for the denial the belief that Libya was a strong supporter of terrorist groups. Farrakhan organised last Octobers Million Man March in the United States that brought thousands of black men to Washington for a peaceful rally. On Tuesday he said he would fight any U.S. government effort to deny him the Libyan funds, which he said would be used to build schools and business in American black communities. But the Treasury said that after consulting the State Department, it was turning down Farrakhans applications because of long-standing grievances with the Libyan regime and because U.S. law prohibited acceptance of the funds. United States foreign policy has consistently sought the international isolation of the Libyan regime for a number of reasons, the Treasury said. It said Libya has been on a list of states that sponsor international terrorism since December 1979, and noted that Libya refused to turn over two Libyan suspects in the 1988 bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland. That refusal led to the imposition of United Nations sanctions against Libya. The White House had signalled earlier that a denial of Farrakhans license application was likely. White House spokesman Mike McCurry told reporters that we would expect American citizens to honour their obligations under U.S. law, which prohibits economic transactions involving the government of Libya that are not sanctioned by licenses issued through the Treasury Department.