U.S. Nation of Islam leader Louis Farrakhan has arrived in Libya to receive a human rights award worth $250,000, Libyan radio reported on Thursday. The U.S. Treasury Department in Washington on Wednesday had denied applications for Farrakhan to receive either the $250,000 honorarium or a $1 billion pledge of funds from Libya. Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi pledged the $1 billion to the Nation of Islam after meeting Farrakhan in Libya last January. Libyan radio, monitored by the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC), said Farrakhan had arrived in the Libyan capital Tripoli. "I would like to thank the people of the Jamahiriyah (Libya), our brother Colonel Muammar Gaddafi and the committee which decided to award me this year's Gaddafi international human rights prize," Libyan radio quoted him as saying in a statement. Richard Newcomb, director of the U.S. Treasury branch that oversees travel and trade restrictions against U.S. citizens' dealing with Libya, had cited among reasons for the denial the belief that Libya was "a strong supporter of terrorist groups". Farrakhan was the organiser of last October's Million Man March in the United States that brought thousands of black men to Washington for a peaceful rally. At a Tuesday news conference in Chicago, he had said he planned to return to Tripoli to receive the humanitarian award that Gaddafi gives annually. Farrakhan said he would fight any U.S. government effort to deny him the Libyan funds, which he said would be used to build schools and business in American black communities. But Treasury said that after consulting with the State Department it was turning down Farrakhan's applications because of longstanding grievances with the Libyan regime and because U.S. law prohibited accepting it. "United States foreign policy has consistently sought the international isolation of the Libyan regime for a number of reasons," Treasury said. It said Libya has been on a list of states that sponsor international terrorism since December 1979, and noted that Libya refused to turn over two Libyan suspects in the 1988 bombing of Pan Am flight 103 over Lockerbie, Scotland. That refusal led to the imposition of United Nations sanctions against Libya. The White House had signalled on Tuesday that a denial of Farrakhan's license application was likely. White House spokesman Mike McCurry told reporters that "we would expect American citizens to honour their obligations under U.S. law, which prohibits economic transactions involving the government of Libya that are not sanctioned by licenses issued through the Treasury Department".