European zinc demand continued at a slow pace throughout August, traditionally the last month of the annual seasonal slowdown. But merchants and producers were looking to the more buoyant U.S. market for trading opportunities, according to dealers, producers and consumers. London Metal Exchange (LME) stocks fell a net 8,050 tonnes between the start of August and the last reporting date on August 22. The total fall since the beginning of May is 61,350 tonnes, with most of the withdrawals coming out of Rotterdam. Traders and producers said a sizeable proportion of this material was bound for the U.S., where higher spot premiums meant the arbitrage window was just open for the bigger operators. Special high grade (SHG) zinc in Europe was quoted at $25 to $30 a tonne above LME cash prices, while in the U.S. the premium was around 6 cents a pound ($132/tonne). "There is a fair chunk of zinc going over to the U.S.," said one European producer source. "At 6 to 6.5 cents premium, if you are a big trader and have good frame contracts in the U.S., and Russian supply to Western Europe is drying up, then this all makes sense," he added. European producers and merchants have been involved in recent arbitrage shipments, and one North American producer was also said to be active. "I get the impression that a North American producer is very tight of metal, and could be moving zinc over," the source said. "A Canadian producer has been buying metal from Europe which is a very good sign for demand in the U.S.," a merchant added. If U.S. prices firm any further and European demand remains stagnant, more traders may look at shipping material out of Rotterdam warehouses to the U.S. "So far the U.S. differential is just about at break-even. But if US premiums rise any further it might make sense to ship more," said a second producer source. "More producers and traders are looking at this possibility." "It is unclear if U.S. demand is going to be maintained. We are looking at this question internally," said a trader. While stocks in Rotterdam have fallen sharply, those in Helsingborg and Trieste have risen in recent months. Traders said material delivered into Helsingborg in July was from the former Yugoslavia and that into Trieste from Bulgaria. European demand was generally soft, although most frame contracts were still being honoured. "Demand in Europe is still sluggish," said a major consumer. "Offtake is still fairly sporadic and people are buying on a hand-to-mouth basis," a producer added. Traders also said a steepening premium for forward prices over nearby ones was deterring forward purchases. Producers have used the seasonal slowdown to re-stock in time for the expected recovery in demand during the fourth quarter of the year, according to traders and consumers. "I do believe that smelters are not putting stocks on to the LME and have built up their own inventories," the consumer said. SHG material was quoted at $25/30 above LME cash prices on the spot market, little changed from late July levels. Russian material was quoted at $10/15 below cash against $15/20 below a month ago. --London Newsroom +44 171 542 8057