Prepared for Reuters by The Broadcast Monitoring Company -- NATIONAL INCOME MAY BE OVERSTATED BY 2 BILLION STG. New economic indicators which take into account the environmental effects of industry claim that Britain's national income may be being overstated by more than 2 billion sterling a year because the figures do not take account of the depletion of oil and gas reserves. A pilot study by the Office for National Statistics claimed that net national income in 1993 was overstated by 2.2 billion stg. The study is the UK's first attempt to incorporate previously ignored costs into the national accounting system. -- WINDFALL FOR CHIEFS AT HANSON ARM 30 of the most senior executives at Millennium Chemicals, soon to be demerged from Hanson, are to share in a 63.5 million dollar share options scheme. As part of a poison pill defence any attempted takeover for the company and subsequent decision to dismiss executives would also trigger large golden parachute payments to management. -- COMPANY PENSION DISCLOSURE ATTACKED A survey from actuaries Lane Clark & Peacock claims that pensions disclosure by companies in the FT-SE 100 is 'confusing, long-winded and badly written'. The annual survey also warned that standards for disclosures in annual reports set by the Accounting Standards Board are not rigorous enough. The survey also found that more than one third of the UK's 100 largest public companies are averaging pensions contributions of 10 per cent of post-tax profits. -- CHILDCARE CONSULTATION LAUNCHED Education and Employment minister Cheryl Gillan has launched a consultation paper on a national framework for childcare, warning that the government believes that responsibility for childcare - and its funding - rests firmly with parents and not the state. The paper points out that women now comprise almost 45 per cent of the workforce, and identifies as key issues the availability of childcare, ways of making it affordable for parents, and increasing access to its provision. -- REGENT PACIFIC ATTACKS HAMBROS Hong Kong-based Regent Pacific is reported to have acquired a 3 per cent stake in British merchant bank Hambros and launched a scathing attack on a record which it described as "diabolical". Regent has called for a meeting with Hambros to discuss the bank's strategy and is expected to call for the bank to move towards operating in the more lucrative corporate finance and fund management areas. -- GEC FACES SHAREHOLDER REVOLT OVER NEW CHIEF'S PAY DEAL GEC has sparked outrage among both the public and shareholders in the company by offering a pay package to new managing director George Simpson which includes annual remuneration of up to 1.5 million stg with share options worth up to 4.8 million stg. The controversial package has prompted a number of large institutional shareholders, including Norwich Union, to consider voting against the appointment of Simpson at GEC's annual general meeting on September 6. Separately, the London stock exchange is reported to be considering whether the way in which GEC disclosed details of Simpson's contract breaches its listing rules. -- STRONG UK EXPORTS GROWTH SHARPLY REDUCES TRADE GAP Official figures released Wednesday show that Britain's trade gap with countries outside the European Union halved last month, due to a strong growth in exports. The trade gap with EU countries was cut in June to its lowest level since November 1995. The figures, from the Office for National Statistics, show that the UK's overall trade deficit with the rest of the world was a seasonally adjusted 1.1 billion sterling in June, the same as for the previous month. Despite the encouraging results, independent economists maintain that Chancellor Kenneth Clarke's forecast of a full-year trade deficit of 3.5 billion stg is unlikely to be met. -- FIRST INFORMATION SHARES TUMBLE 40 PER CENT Shares in multimedia publisher First Information Group have fallen sharply in value after it issued a warning that sales would be lower than had been anticipated at the time of the company's flotation some five months ago. First Information also revealed that it is engaged in talks with a number of British media groups regarding a possible sale. The company has noted that sales in the pre-Christmas season will be vital. -- WH SMITH FALLS INTO 195 MILLION STG LOSS High street retailer WH Smith has reported the company's first loss, some 194.7 million stg, since its foundation some 240 years ago. The loss resulted from provisions made for the costs of restructuring and the sale of non-core businesses. Describing the results as "inadequate", chairman Bill Cockburn expressed confidence that the benefits of this restructuring would begin to show through later this year. The company, which has experienced a downturn in business, last year issued two profits warnings. BMC +44-171-377-1742