Prepared for Reuters by The Broadcast Monitoring Company DAILY TELEGRAPH -- PORTERBROOK DIRECTORS AND STAFF SHARE 80 MILLION STG The 475 million stg takeover of Porterbrook, the train leasing company, by bus operator Stagecoach went ahead yesterday, triggering payments of 80 million stg to the companies' six directors and 43 staff. Managing director of Porterbrook Sandy Anderson will collect cash, shares and loan notes worth 33 million stg within the next fortnight after the deal went unconditional. The Office of Fair Trading and the Office of Passenger Rail Franchising have yet to announce their views on the acquisition. -- PRICING PRESSURES DEEPEN STENA LOSS The Swedish-owned ferries operator Stena Line has increased passenger numbers by 40 per cent on the key Dover-Calais route in the first half of the year. Pressures on pricing caused by competition from Eurotunnel and the late delivery of ferries for the group's Irish Sea services led to a 60 per cent rise in the company's losses. Bo Lerenius, managing director, said the strategy for 1996 had been to increase volumes and market share by adding to capacity and increasing the frequency of services. -- TOP COMPANIES FAIL THE 'TRUE PICTURE' TEST According to Lane Clake and Peacock, a firm of actuaries, the disclosure of pension fund details by Britain's 100 largest companies is inadequate, misleading, confusing, long-winded and difficult to follow. A survey by the firm shows that annual accounts do not give readers of accounts sufficient information to form a true picture of the company's liabilities. It added that little was published in accounts about assumptions behind asset valuations. THE TIMES -- WH SMITH REPORTS FIRST LOSS IN 204-YEAR HISTORY WH Smith has admitted that it is up to four years away from recovery as the company reported its first loss in its 204-year history. Chief executive Bill Cockburn said that so far this year trading has been patchy with sales in books and stationary doing well but poor sales of music, computer games and video. He said the group was on the right track after major reconstructuring. -- SEARS TO CLOSE 200 SHOE SHOPS RETURNED FROM FACIA COLLAPSE The retailer Sears is to close 200 shoe shops that have come back to it after the collapse of the Facia empire with the loss of 2,000 jobs. 90 of the shops have already been closed and the rest will be closed after remaining stock is sold. There are huge sales in all shops owned by Sears, with customers being offered fixtures and fittings as well as shoes below half price. Even though Staff are technically employed by Stephen Hinchliffe, former owner of Facia, Sears has agreed to make redundancy payments as if they had never left the employment of Sears. This will cost the company more than four million stg. -- LLOYD'S POISED FOR THREE BILLION STG STEP AS RESCUE IS BACKED Lloyd's of London, after receiving an endorsement of its recovery plan for the insurance market, is to declare its 3.2 billion stg settlement offer as unconditional. More than 90 per cent of the 34,000 Names world-wide had accepted the settlement by yesterday's deadline. Lloyd's said it would continue receiving acceptances from Names in America as many had delayed responding while court proceedings were going on. THE GUARDIAN -- EU EXPORTS CUT TRADE GAP The Office of National Statistics have said that surging exports to the Continent have fuelled a pick-up in the UK's trade performance. This has dispelled City fears that a buoyant high street would send Britain into the red. The shortfall in European Union partners has fallen to 28 million stg in June against 314 million stg the previous month. Treasury ministers welcomed the news of a narrowing trade gap as a sign of new competitiveness among exporters. -- DIVIDENDS WILL FALL AS HANSON IS BROKEN UP The Hanson group have revealed that its demerger will cost 95 million stg and will leave shareholders worse off as the dividends of the constituent parts will fall well short of the group's recent payouts. The figures were given to shareholders who will vote on the split next month. If they approve the plan they will get one share in Imperial for every ten they own in Hanson, and one share in Millennium for every 70 Hanson shares. -- IRAN SUES SIEMENS FOR FAILING TO COMPLETE NUCLEAR PLANT It has emerged that Siemens, the German industrial giant, is facing a multi-billion pound stg claim for damages from Tehran over its failure to complete a nuclear power plant. Siemens is facing claims for more than eight billion marks in compensation over the abandoned plant in the southern port of Bushehr. Houssain Moussavian, Iran's ambassador to Germany, said the claims had been lodged with the International Court of Justice. He also accused Siemens of bowing to US pressure to block development of the plant. THE INDEPENDENT -- GREENBURY MAN BACKS SIMPSON'S TEN MILLION STG PAY Tim Melville-Ross, a leading member of the Greenbury committee which is set to curb excessive pay, defended a controversial package that could net George Simpson, GEC's chief executive ten million stg over the next ten years. He described the hostile reaction of most institutional investors, shareholders' groups and opposition politicians to the deal as "totally unjustified". -- WIDENING RIFT OVER 'BLUE SKIES' THREATENS BA DEAL US Government officials have intimated that the breakdown in US-UK talks aimed at securing an open skies agreement could be permanent, thus ending the planned alliance between British Airways and American Airlines. The latest negotiations were postponed by the US team because they claimed that a draft agreement drawn up by the UK Department of Transport was "miles away from a true open skies" deal. They insisted that talks could only resume unless Britain substantially shifted its negotiating stance. -- INVESTOR ATTACKS HAMBROS The Hong-Kong investment group Regent Pacific could be trying to put in a takeover bid for Hambros, the merchant bank, by disclosing a three per cent stake and mounting an attack on the board's performance. Chairman of Regent Pacific Jim Mellon said that Hambros is an undervalued and undermanaged enterprise and that the company is in need of "repairs". Regent has spent 14 million stg buying shares in the bank, money which came from Regent's own capital and not from funds under management for clients. BMC +44-171-377-1742