Britain has underlined its determination to try to rein in the powers of the European Union over member states by proposing that the principle of subsidiarity built into the Maastricht Treaty be strengthened. Britain said on Wednesday it would present the idea when foreign ministers' representatives have their weekly inter-governmental conference (IGC) meeting in Brussels on September 3 and 4. It is suggesting a protocol to strengthen Article 3B of the treaty, which sets out the principle of subsidiarity -- that action should be taken at the lowest appropriate level. "If adopted, the protocol will help to improve the quality of European legislation, and curb some if its more intrusive aspects," the Foreign Office said. It said Britain wanted to ensure that the principle of subsidiarity was applied consistently and coherently. "A Community institution shall not adopt a measure unless it is satisfied that the objective of the measure is clearly established, that the objective is aimed at meeting one or more of the objectives of the Treaty, and that the necessary legal basis for its adoption exists," its paper says. An EU institution would be required to justify its case for EU-wide action, and the European Commission would be under an obligation to propose the simplest form of action possible. Britain also wants the Commission to justify itself whenever it opts for binding, rather than non-binding, measures. "In choosing the type of Community action, the Commission shall also explain, where appropriate, why preference was not given to proposals encouraging cooperation between member states, coordinating national action or to complementing, supplementing or supporting such action," the Foreign Office paper says. The proposal is the latest in a series that Britain, like other member states, has put to the IGC. London's other proposals have concerned the European Court of Justice, quota-hopping by fishermen, animal welfare, the quality of EU legislation, competition rules for farm products, trans-European networks, and common foreign and security policy.