A leading figure in Northern Ireland's shadowy Protestant "Loyalist" politics said on Thursday that he would defy an order to leave the province by the movement's underground leadership. Billy Wright told BBC radio that he had been given 72 hours to leave Northern Ireland or face "summary justice" from the Combined Loyalist Military Command (CLMC), the umbrella group for outlawed Protestant pro-British guerrilla groups.   "I have no plans to leave my family or home," said Wright, who says he is close to the leadership of one branch of the Ulster Volunteer Force (UVF) guerrillas fighting a murky war to keep Northern Ireland British. A statement from the CLMC said that Wright and a colleague, who is still in jail, must leave Northern Ireland by the weekend after attempting to set up a breakaway faction. "Failure by either man to comply with this directive will result in summary justice for their treasonable and subversive activities. Anybody supporting these persons in their activities will be similarly dealt with," a CLMC statement said.   The dispute highlighted strains in the Loyalist movement which threaten a 22-month ceasefire it declared to get its political spokesmen involved in Anglo-Irish Northern Ireland peace talks which resume in Belfast on September 9. Wright accused the UVF's political arm, the Progressive Unionist Party (PUP), of betraying Loyalism, so-called because of its membership's allegiance to the British crown and opposition to IRA guerrillas fighting to end British rule of the province. "I believe that the political direction in which they are moving is wrong. I believe time would be better spent sticking up for Northern Ireland," said Wright.   Wright has survived several assassination attempts by the Irish Republican Army (IRA), which ended a 20-month ceasefire in February and resumed its war on British rule with a wave of attacks outside the province. David Ervine, leader of the PUP, said this week that the Loyalist truce was close to breaking point because of the IRA's failure to renew its own ceasefire. The Mid-Ulster UVF faction was expelled from the CLMC in August after the unsolved killing of a Catholic taxi driver during a standoff between Protestant Orange marchers and police at Drumcree near Portadown.   The UVF denied that any of its units carried out the killing but police said the death had all the hallmarks of a killing by Loyalists, who killed 900 Catholics in a 25-year war to terrorise the community from which the IRA draws support. The Drumcree standoff ended when police reversed a ban on the Orange Order marching through a Catholic, Irish nationalist area of Portadown, sparking a wave of Catholic protests which included the bombing of a hotel and riots. Wright, in his trademark tight jeans, cropped blonde hair and earring, was seen by reporters monitoring the standoff between marchers and police at Portadown. Both the IRA and Loyalist movements have survived numerous policy fissures and breakaway movement over the past quarter century but internal feuding has killed dozens of members.