British components and engineering group T&N Plc, working to shed the burden of the legal legacy of its former asbestos manufacturing activities, said on Thursday that any failure of a key U.S. damages settlement system could cost it around 50 million stg in extra charges this year. Finance director David Harding, speaking after first-half results that showed a slip in pretax profits, told Reuters T&N would expect to take an additional charge of around 50 million stg if the so-called Georgine settlement arrangement ceased. "That's 50 million stg in addition to the 50 million stg we willl take in 1996 expecting that Georgine remains," he said.   Chairman Sir Colin Hope said in a telephone interview that the company was still settling cases through Georgine despite a legal ruling earlier this year by the 3rd Circuit (federal court) that the system should be overturned as it did not meet the criteria for a class action. "It is continuing to work because we have (asked) the Supreme Court to hear a formal appeal based on the fact that the 3rd Circuit ruling is clearly in conflict with rulings in other circuits," Hope told Reuters. Until T&N gets a supreme court decision on its leave to appeal, the law requires Georgine to continue to operate.   "The decision regarding whether we may form the appeal to the supreme court will be made probably in mid-October but certainly not before the middle of October," Hope said. If the request is turned down, Georgine would fall away "within seven days of that decision", and then the company would have to make a provision for additional claimants. "If we (then) go back to what amounts to a free-for-all tort system, because that's the alternative, then we already have got cases in the pipeline of people who would claim...and based on the current evidence we would have to then introduce about a 50 million provision straight away," he said.   However, Hope said that this estimate, which would give a total charge for the year of "probably 100 million", was only a guide. "It's not a precise figure, it's not even a forecast, it's only a guidance based upon the best data we've got." The alternative situation, should the appeal go ahead, would be that Georgine would remain the only way for liability claims to be pursued and settled until the appeal hearing was complete. Hope said that could take until the middle of 1997. "As long as (the appeal) continues, we do not make any provision for what would happen if Georgine ceases," he added. -- Andrew Huddart, London Newsroom, +44 171 542 8716