HOWARD JOSTLED AT APEC DINNER Prime Minister John Howard has moved to reaffirm his government's commitment to trade with Asian nations. Mr Howard was speaking last night at a dinner with APEC energy ministers at Sydney's Town Hall, where he was jostled and jeered by protestors as he arrived. Mr Howard told the ministers the region would continue to provide economic growth if economic management, access to export markets, and good education and health services continued. And he defended the rise of some private health insurance premiums, saying Labour's failed health policy was the reason two health insurance companies have raised thier premiums. - - - - FOX STILL ON THE RUN Police at Glenwood say information from the public on the whereabouts of fugative William Kelvin Fox indicates that he's still in the scrubland area cordoned off by police. On Tuesday night police surrounded the 15 kilometre wide area, at Glenwood, north of Gympie where Fox is believed to have gone to ground. Fox is alleged to have fatally shot his estranged wife and wounded two others early on Tuesday. Police are also searching a number of homes in the area after tip-offs from the public. - - - - BODY FOUND AT TERRIGAL A body has been found in a garbage bin in bushland at Terrigal on the New South Wales central coast. A local resident alerted police to a body protruding from a bin after he went to investigate the activities of a group of young people yesterday afternoon. Police say the body is that of a man and it's thought he's been dead for up to five months. - - - - CRIME FIGURE DIES IN PRISON Leading Sydney crime figure Len McPherson has died in Cessnock Correction Centre in the Hunter Valley. Police say 75 year old McPherson who was serving a sentence for assault, collapsed and died at the minimium security at around half past seven last night. It's understood he was making a phone call when he suffered an apparent heart attack. Police say there are no suspicious circumstances surrounding Mr McPherson's death. - - - - FRENCH SAYS LEGISLATION UNLIKELY Native Title Tribunal head, Justice Robert French, says it's unlikely there'll be legislation allowing pastoral leases to extinguish native title. Northern Territory pastoralists have called for the legislation, saying they've opted put of the legal process. But Justice French says the Federal Government has already recognised the difficulties involved with such legislation. They include the implications for the racial discrimination act, the question of constitutional compensensation, and the international implications. - - - - STUDENT PROTESTS PLANNED Tertiary students across the country will today take part in another day of action, to voice their anger over cuts to tertiary funding and increases in HECS charges. It's the first day of action since the Federal Budget. The students are confident of gaining enough support to have Budget cuts to higher education opposed in the Senate. The National Union of Students says the budget cuts to tertiary funding and increases in HECS charges, will mean a massive shift in the focus of education. They say the changes will throw the concepts of equity and access out the window. - - - - BUCKLEY OUT OF MATCH AND BROWNLOW In AFL, a one-week suspension handed last night on Nathan Buckley has cost the Collingwood star a chance of winning this year's Brownlow Medal. Buckley has been found guilty of tripping Adelaide's Ben Hart. He told the Tribunal he had no intention of tripping. Videotape of the incident showed Buckley's left foot making contact with Hart's thigh, and Buckley's advocate tried to argue that contact above the knee couldn't be called tripping. But the Tribunal differed, and suspended the Collingwood star. He'll miss the Magpies last game for the season on Saturday. -- Reuters Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800