Australian bond yield spreads to the U.S. could continue their rapid contraction of recent months, but are unlikely to drop to zero as Treasurer Peter Costello suggested earlier on Thursday, analysts said. Costello told reporters that there was no need for a premium if Australia could show it had a low inflation environment, although he did concede there would always be a difference because of its smaller economy.   "You pay an inflation premium because people are concerned that if you have had high inflation in the past, you will have high inflation in the future," said Andrew Pease, senior economist at Nomura Research Australia. He felt that while inflation risks have lessened, it could take some years before Australia gets totally rid of its inflation risk. The Australia/U.S. 10-year bond yield spread has seen a major contraction from the 250-plus region seen in April and to its lowest level in over two years.   A recent Reuters survey of economists showed forecasts centring on a 120 basis points spread by year-end, a level briefly tested on Monday, but estimates range between 70 and 150 basis points over the U.S. "You'd only expect the spread to be zero if the inflation differential was zero and that growth rates in the two economies were similar, which is clearly not the case," said John Kyriakopoulos, senior economist at Macquarie Bank. "There will be a positive spread reflecting real interest rates as our potential growth rate is higher than the U.S.," he added.   A spread premium is based on elements such as the inflation outlook, the level of real interest rates, sovereign credit and political risks. The Australian market's substantial outperformance over the U.S. in recent months is based on the country's current subdued outlook, last month's 50 basis points cut in official interests, and the possibility of a further monetary policy easing. Last week's market-friendly fiscal budget and the lessening in risk to offshore investors following Standard & Poor's revised outlook for Australia to positive have also seen 10-year bond yields drop to their lowest level in nearly 2-1/2 years.   However, S&P said in its revised outlook that an upgrade of the country's foreign currency AA long-term rating would be on the maintenance of a tight fiscal stance. The 10-year bond yield touched 7.80 percent last week, but has since seen a correction to just over 8.0 percent. "Even though people don't expect bad things to happen to our economy, there is always that chance that something might," Nomura's Pease said. -- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800