The Asia Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) forum must start achieving tangible trade liberalisation goals or risk losing support, U.S. APEC Ambassador John Wolf warned on Thursday. Leaders just cant keep coming together and just having grand visioning, Wolf told a briefing in Sydney for the inaugural APEC energy ministers meeting. For APEC as a whole to continue to attract attention, to engage the business community...I think we have to clearly demonstrate specific achievements, he said. From now to the year 2000 we have to go out and harvest this stuff, said Wolf, The 18-member APEC group has set a goal of free trade regimes by the year 2010 for developed member-economies and 2020 for developing economies. APEC leaders will hold their fourth summit in November in Subic Bay in the Philippines. APEC groups Australia, Brunei, Canada, Chile, China, Indonesia, Hong Kong, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, the Philippines, Papua New Guinea, New Zealand, Singapore, South Korea, Taiwan, Thailand and the United States. From 1989 when Australia put the idea forward for APEC to now I think is the construction stage and you dont get a big payback on your loans on the construction stage, Wolf said. Subic is the end of the construction stage. For the rest of it we had better start getting a return on the dollar, he said. Wolf cited three specific goals which he said were attainable -- business mobility, mutual recognition arrangements and the harmonisation of customs. Those are big deals which would lower the cost of doing business within the Asia-Pacific region, he said. Other achievements would include a lowering of various trade barriers and greater transparency in business which would lead to an understanding of how governments set tariffs and prices. Wolf said investment flows into Vietnam and China had ebbed recently because of cloudy procurement practices, poor rates of return and problems in negotiating with governments. He said trade liberalisation action plans tabled by APEC nations in the Philippines last week were mixed, with some exceeding expectations and others not. Several in ASEAN have very good plans and a couple in ASEAN are fairly conservative, he said. ASEAN, the Association of Southeast Nations, groups Indonesia, Malaysia, Singapore, Brunei, Thailand, the Philippines and Vietnam. Wolf said the recent tax free exemption granted to Indonesian President Suhartos son Hutomo Mandala Putra to produce a Timor car flew in the face of trade liberalisation. Its certainly a different road to liberalisation. Its not one of the most promising steps towards liberalisation in 2020. However, Wolf was confident the action plans tabled in Subic in November would meet APECs expectations. This individual action plans stuff is almost doomed to succeed because I think countries of the region will understand they have to liberalise. The only way they can continue to grow at the rates they are growing is to liberalise, he said. Wolf said political instability in Asia and political ignorance towards APEC in Washington would create only temporary hurdles towards free trade goals. Wolf said that while APEC anchored U.S. foreign policy in Asia, in political circles in Washington, APEC was not a household name. We have not, as a country, figured Asia out yet, he said.