Australian mineral sands miner RGC Ltd said on Thursday the outlook for titanium dioxide (Ti02) was mixed due strong demand offset by a price pressure from an expansion of world production capacity. "With Ti02 we have good news and bad news. The good news is that U.S. growth forecast is very strong around three to four percent and there strong titinum metal demand particularly because of some aviation growth and also of golf clubs," RGC managing director Marke Bethwaite told reporters. Ti02 is used to make the titanium metal and comes from the mineral sand rutile.   "However, in the U.S. and in Asia there is something of a price war going on," Bethwaite said. Bethwaite said there was a bit of an overcapacity in the Ti02 pigment industry and a number of producer are seeking to enhance or protect market share. "So prices are taking quite a battering," he said. "That (price war) is not impacting on us at the moment, we continue to be fully loaded in our feedstock supply. But there may develop pressure on prices for calendar 1997," he said. RGC is 40 percent owned by British conglomerate Hanson Plc and is one of the world's biggest mineral sand miners.   "The outlook (for Ti02) for the next couple of years is not as strong as zircon as there are a number of new facilities coming on from 1997," Bethwaite said. Bethwaite said about 60 percent of the group's Ti02 output was in fixed volume and fixed price contracts, with another 30 percent on fixed volumes and prices that have to be negotiated and about 10 percent exposed to the spot price. "I hope, with great confidence, to operate at full capacity through the current financial year and beyond because of the strength of that contractural position," he said.   "In zircon, I am pleased to say that the end use continues to be strong, particularly in the ceramics area and the market fundamentals are much better than Ti02," Bethwaite said. Bethwaite said RGC has about 30 percent of the Ti02 world market share and around 35 percent of the zircon world market. RGC's shares ended one cent up to A$5.94 on Thursday after it reported a doubling of operating profit to A$108.57 million in the year to June 30, 1996. -- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373 1800