Australian mineral sands and base metal miner RGC Ltd said it was one of three companies on the short-list to buy the tin assets of Bolivian state-owned group COMIBOL mining corp, including a tin smelter and two mines. "We are on the short-list for what is called the capitialisation of COMIBOL tin assets, there were four parties there are now three including RGC as one," RGC managing director Mark Bethwaite told reporters on Thursday. "We shall be putting in a tender for those assets, which include two mines and a smelter," Bethwaite said. He said he could not say how much RGC was prepared to pay for the assets.   Bethwaite said RGC, which produced about 16,000 tonnes of tin in concentrate in the 1995/96 year, was keen on tin assets in the land-locked South American nation. "If we were to have the total tin production of these (Bolivian) mines, which would be just over 20,000 tonnes. It would double our existing production and double our western tin market share from 15 percent to 30 percent," Bethwaite said. He said if RGC was successful with the Bolivian acquisition it would make the group one of the world's biggest tin miners, behind the world's largest tin miner Tambang Timah of Indonesia, which is expected to produce 41,500 tonnes in 1996.   COMIBOL owns the Vinto tin smelter, which is part of the Bolivian government asset sale. The privatization of Vinto, was due in June, but was postponed until September, because the two mines, Colquiri and Huanuni, which supply some of Vinto's concentrate feed -- the intermediate product that is smelted into tin -- were unhappy with the smelter sell-off. Bethwaite would not say who the other two companies were on the short list. Glencore Ag of Switzerland, Smelting Corp Berhad of Malaysia and Paranapanema S.A. Mineracao of Brazil were the other companies on the previous short-list of four.   RGC, formerly Renison Consolidated Goldfields Ltd, is 40 percent owned by British conglomerate Hanson Plc. RGC's shares ended one cent up to A$5.94 on Thursday after it repported a doubling of operating profit to A$108.57 million in the year to June 30, 1996. -- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373 1800