The Australian dollar hit a six-week high Thursday as broad-based buying and a benign current account reading helped it penetrate stiff resistance. Traders said demand from Tokyo, partly related to a samurai, and straight buying from U.S. names lifted the currency 1/3 cent to a US$0.7945 top. Locals lined up there to take profits, but the pullback had been shallow pointing to further gains ahead. "We'll proably consolidate here for a while, but the bids are still there, the samurais are continuing and the AUD should see US$0.7960 soon," said Andrew McGill, a dealer at Chase.   By 4.45 pm (0645 GMT) the local dollar had dug in at US$0.7932/37 having advanced from an early US$0.7910/15 and Wednesday's late US$0.7905/10. The break of US$0.7935 was seen as a bullish technical signal which heralded a test of trendline resistance at US$0.7960 in the short term and eventually June's high of 80 cents. The loss of US$0.7890 would reverse the upward trend. On the crosses, it extended Wednesday's big figure rally to 85.90/00 yen from a previous 85.67/77 close. Dealers said some of the buying was linked to the launch of a 30 billion yen A$ samurai from DSL Bank of Germany, the third samurai this week.   And analsysts thought there were good reasons to expect continued demand from Japanese investors for A$ paper. The yield attraction was the most obvious as Wednesday's weak business survey from the Bank of Japan meant interest rates there looked certain to remain at record lows for months yet. A Japanese investor could earn around 6.5 percent on a typical two-year dual currency A$ samurai compared to less than one percent on a two year Japanese government bond. "You'd be amazed how popular these samurais are with punters (individual investors) in Japan," said one dealer at a Japanese bank here.   "I've just got back from Tokyo where the grandmother of a friend was telling me how she was putting her savings into Aussie samurais. She'd calculated currency risk and everything." He noted that in July alone a record 290 billion yen of dual currency samurais had been launched and the Japanese Bond Underwriters Association estimated over half of these were bought by individual investors. However, analysts with a longer attention span cautioned that the slower Japanese growth implied by the gloomy Tankan survey was a double edged sword since it could restrain demand for commodities, and Japan was Australia's biggest customer.   Japan's recovery was also central to bullish arguments for a synchronised acceleration in global growth leading to a general rise in world commodity prices. Commodities make up over 60 percent of Australia's exports and a sustained rise in prices would do much to improve the country's recurring balance of payments problems. Today's data on the current account showed the deficit at a tolerable A$1.282 billion in July from A$1.223 billion in June. Exports fell 4.0 percent, but the merchandise trade balance remained in surplus, the first time since early 1994 that it has been in surplus for consecutive months.   However, the net income deficit widened 12 percent to A$1.744 billion and speculation the deficits from previous months would be revised down sharply proved wide of the mark. "The likelihood is that most of the improvement has been cyclical and the test will come when the economy picks up speed again and import demand accelerates," said Andrew Pease, an economist at Nomura Research Australia. If then the deficit could be held below 5.5 percent of GDP, it would be a sign that moves to increase national savings by reducing the budget deficit were succeeding and the structural deterioration in the deficit was being reversed, he said.   The current account deficit amounted to just over 4.0 percent of GDP in 1995/96. The next domestic data are building approvals for July on Friday -- retail sales were also scheduled for release Friday but have been delayed until Tuesday. The local currency was up at 58.1 in trade weighted terms from 57.6 late Wednesday. -- Wayne Cole 61-2 9373 1800