Australian Gas Light Co Ltd (AGL) said on Thursday its Victorian based electric utility Solaris applied on Wednesday for an electricity licence in the state of New South Wales and AGL would also apply for a licence in the near term. "Yesterday Solaris applied for an electricity licence in New South Wales and within the next month or so AGL will also apply for an electricity lisence," AGL managing director Len Bleasel told reporters.   AGL along with U.S. company General Public Utilities Corp jointly bought Solaris from the Victorian state government in October last year for A$950 million. Bleasel said the electricity licence applications were in line with AGL's strategy of becoming a one-stop shop energy supplier and would also ultimately help counter-balance the affect of third party access to its gas distribution system. "If there is a negative impact on AGL's earnings in New South Wales, it is our intention to make that up by us competing with the third parties in both gas and electricity in other locations around the country," Bleasel said.   AGL could afford to increase its debt by up to A$2 billion to make new acquisitions, Bleasel said, and was interested in acquiring the state-owned Victorian gas distribution company company, Gascorp. "We are not going to pay silly prices, we are not going to pay over what we think it is worth. I just hope that the value we place on it is suffcient to be able to bring it into our camp," he said. He said he could not say whether AGL would have a partner in its bid for some or all of Gascorp.   Bleasel said longer term AGL would be happy to see two gas pipeline connections between New South Wales (NSW) and Victoria, because NSW did not have enough contracted gas beyond 2000. ""In the shorter term the sensible way to go is through what we call the logical link (Wagga to Albury gas pipe connection). In the early years only small amounts of gas will be needed - Ours (link) is a lot cheaper," he said. The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd (BHP) in conjunction with Canada's Westcoast Energy Inc has proposed to build a pipline connecting gas to NSW from the Bass Strait fields which it owns jointly with a subsidiary of Exxon Corp.   Bleasel said it was likely that if the BHP pipeline proposal went ahead, AGL would lose contract gas supplies for BHP's operations in NSW which currently amounted to between 15 to 17 petajoules a year and were forecast to rise to 25 petajoules a year. "I would be silly to say there is no chance of any negative effect (from a BHP pipeline), but we have to manage that and find other ways of offsetting that negative effect," he said. AGL's gas comes from the Cooper Basin onshore fields in South Australia operated by a Santos Ltd - led group. -- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373-1800