Adelaide Bank Ltd said on Thursday it was confident profitability and earnings per share would increase in the 1996/97 financial year.   "I'm confident Adelaide Bank's profitability is going to increase next year and increase in earnings per share too," Adelaide Bank Managing Director Barry Fitzpatrick told reporters after a business briefing. Fitzpatrick said that with interest rates falling and the resulting squeeze on margins, Adelaide Bank would concentrate in future on both maintaining profitability in the banking retail area and growing its interstate, insurance, treasury and retirement operations. The bank wanted to grow its insurance, retirement and treasury operations from their current 13 percent of total profit to 40 percent in the medium term.   "I would be hoping into the future that we can see Adelaide Bank's profits down the track in the medium term be something like 60 percent from the narrowly defined banking business and 40 percent from the widely defined financial services business," he said. "I believe more of our profits can come from other markets both geographically and product driven...," he said. Fitzpatrick said he aimed to increase the bank's retirement services division from its current seven percent of profit to 10 percent in the short-term.   "All indications are that it will achieve that," he said adding it would be difficult for other banking competitors to enter the market where Adelaide Bank already had significant investment with its 29 retirement villages. He said he was very confident the bank would be able to retain the division, a legacy of its former days as a building society, which is currently under review by the Reserve Bank. Fitzpatrick said he aimed to increase the share of the bank's insurance services to ten percent of total profits from the current three percent.   "At present we are getting one in eight of our customers having their insurance with us, I would have thought one in two or three would have been acceptable," he said. Fitzpatrick earlier told the Securities Institute of Australia briefing the bank wanted to cut its cost of operations compared to income to 55 percent from 60 percent in the medium term. -- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800