Casino operator Sky City Ltd is expected to produce a net profit slightly above its own forecast of NZ$15 million when it reports its first annual result next week, analysts said on Thursday. Sky City in June forecast a profit of NZ$15 million for the period to June 1996, up from a previous forecast of $14.1 million, after opening its doors on February 2. Few analysts expect any significant variation from Sky City's own forecast when it reports on Tuesday and most will be focusing on what lies ahead.   Robert Bode, head of research at Hendry Hay McIntosh, said that brokerage's forecast of NZ$15.6 million had not changed. The market would be eager for news on the costs side after the company, in its June update, signalled there had been over-runs in the first 90 days of operation. Analysis of seasonal trends would been keenly noted. The market also expects to see trends in visitation and revenue per machine and per table. Signs of a pickup in ancilliary services would also be noted. ANZ Securities' Raymond Webb said he was expecting NZ$15.2-15.5 million.   "I would expect that the return from gaming would have continued the strong trend of outperformance that we saw in the initial 90-day period, partially offset by lower than budgeted returns from the hotel and other activities," Webb said. Seasonal aspects remained a big unknown, but Webb said the Australian experience suggested the longer the period of operation, the win to the casino per patron tended to improve as larger gamblers returned and sightseer visits faded away.   Sky City may also choose the occasion to detail its expansion plans via casino applications for Wellington and possibly Queenstown in the South Island. Overseas opportunities or other areas of the leisure industry could not be ruled out. "The company has been emphatic that it's not going to be a one-operation business, so I would expect that, over time, they would diversify into other gaming facilities and possibly other oportunities in the broader leisure sector," Webb said. Table gaming business for the first 90 days was well above initial projections with an average win to the casino per table per day of NZ$3,220.   Slot win also showed positive growth with an average win per slot per day of $179. Daily slot revenue had shown steady growth since opening and has continued to improve. Sky City is half-owned by Brierley Investments Ltd. Harrah's Entertainment, which manages the casino, owns 12.5 percent. Sky City's listing documents forecast a NZ$35.8 million profit in the year to June 1997 -- its first full year of trading -- and $40.8 million in 1998. -- Wellington newsroom (64 4 4734746)