A proposal by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) to discontinue the publication of monthly balance of payments figures and replace them with monthly trade data and a quarterly balance of payments report has widespread support among economists. "We would give it a 'yes' vote," Citibank Australia senior economist Stephen Koukoulas said of the proposal.   The cost cutting proposal by the ABS would see the "hard" merchandise trade data reported each month, followed by a balance of payments report when the ABS completed its quarterly survey of foreign investment. "From our point of view, it's a good idea, because the net income balance, month to month, is just a projection by the ABS," SBC Warburg senior economist Guy Bruten said. "It's not a survey, it's not a hard number, and it's so subject to revision," he said. The main problem many economists had with the current system was the often-large revisions to the net income deficit.   Currently, the monthly net income deficits are "based on extrapolations of quarterly results divided by three," the balance of payments release states. These extrapolations are then replaced by the results of the quarterly survey of foreign investment. For the September quarter, these results will not be available until the October release, due on November 29. "So really the big bulk of the current account deficit we don't have terribly much by way of reliable information on it on a month by month basis," Commonwealth Bank chief economist Bruce Freeland said.   "In that sense the market is just getting some data, and reacting off data, which to some extent may not be completely reliable, or as reliable as the ABS and economists would like to see," Freeland said. That created a conflict between the need for timeliness of the data and its reliability. "Moving to a quarterly number based on better net income figures to me may just be the appropriate way to go," he said. The ABS has not finalised details of the proposal, and so was unsure at present how the new system would work, if adopted.   Presently, a monthly imports report is released ahead of the current account deficit because the imports data is availble earlier than the other components, including the exports data. As a result, it was uncertain as to whether there would be a single monthly trade report, or separate imports and exports releases, an ABS spokeswoman said. While economists approved of the proposal, they could see that not everyone would embrace the idea of scaling back the monthly current account report, one of the major monthly events in the local financial market.   "From an economists' point of view I think its a very good idea," SBC's Bruten said. "If you're options trader you might have a different view because you'd have a bit of a drop in volatility." Opposition politicians have also come out against the move, labelling as a means for the government to avoid monthly debate. Some economists also had some suggestions as to how the ABS could reallocate any funds saved under the proposal. Citibank's Koukoulas suggested the ABS could introduce monthly inflation reports, because of the increased need for accurate measures of inflationary pressures.   "Maybe that's the trade off -- don't worry about trade because we don't have accurate numbers, worry about inflation. It's such an important indicator and we just get it once a quarter," he said. -- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 9373 1800