Australia Gas Light Co Ltd (AGL) said on Thursday its net profit of A$124.3 million for 1995/96 was achievable again in the year to June 30, 1997. "It is a repeatable profit," AGL managing director Len Bleasel told reporters. Bleasal said he would not forecast an earnings level for 1996/97 except to say the company was targetting earnings growth of 10 percent.   "Any company worth its salt today has got to have an increase well above real interest if they are to stay at the popular end of the market. We have to be over three to four percent (earnings growth), we would be looking at something up to 10 percent," Bleasel said. He said AGL had a quantum leap in profit in 1995/96 and would attempt to plane at that level. "But we are looking for an increase in profitability," he said. Bleasel said the company had surprised the market with its 32 percent increase in net profit for 1995/96. "(The market) hasn't understood everything we have been doing," he said.   What had surprised the market most of all, Bleasel said was that nearly 40 percent of the company's earnings came from its non-utility businesses. Bleasel said AGL was building up its position so that when the planned third party access to its gas distribution system in New South Wales did eventuate, it would be in a strong position to compete in new markets. The company's debt to equity ratio had risen to 41 percent at June 30 due to the company's acquisition of Victorian electricity supplier, Solaris Energy, Bleasel said.   "We are confident, given there are no major acquisitions this financial year, that we will have a debt to equity ratio back to about 34 percent again," he said. Bleasel said for a company of AGL's size 34 percent was under-geared. "We have long term contracts in place, we can afford to be much more geared than that - it means that we have a balance sheet that we can now use to do further acquisitions without going to shareholders," he said. Bleasel said the company could now potentially make up to A$2 billion of acquisitions without using equity.   Bleasel said a settlement of a tax audit by the Australian Taxation Office meant the company could pay a fully franked final dividend for 1995/96. He said AGL would not be able to fully frank its dividends for a couple of years. -- Sydney Newsroom 61-2 373-1800