Wine and truck parts company Corporate Investments Ltd (CIL) is expected next week to report a net profit after tax of around NZ$18-19 million for the June 1996 year, analysts said on Thursday. There was an outside possibility that CIL, which last year reported an annual profit of NZ$13.10 million, may also announce a dividend for the first time in many years, but it was doubtful it would contain significant imputation tax credits, if any. "Payment of a dividend, in effect, would be a signalling device rather than anything else," said one analyst.   "It would say here, we've arrived back as a credible company again after years of being overgeared," the analyst, who declined to be identified, said. He expected a reported profit of NZ$18.7 million. The former high flying investment company of the heady pre-1987 crash days now has just three businesses, having heavily divested to retire debt. CIL is now made up of just Montana Wines, Truck Investments and an office block at 50 Cavill Avenue, Surfer's Paradise.   Analysts said the company is still over-geared but nothing it can't handle. However, the sale of Cavill Avenue, which does not fit the company's scheme of things, would be a welcome sign. Such a move would bring the company's debt-equity levels down to around 50 percent from about 75 percent at present. The company is keen on selling Cavill Avenue, which has an estimated book value of around NZ$43 million, but is understood to be in no great rush. CIL's earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) would also be higher than the company's own forecast of NZ$34.3 million, but its interest bill would also be greater.   EBIT for Montana was expected to come in at around NZ$27 million, $9-10 million for Truck Investments and $2-3 million for Cavill Avenue. Truck Investments, with 11 branches, is mostly involved in providing of parts and service, with about 70 percent of its EBIT coming from that area. The remainder comes from truck sales, which tend to wax and wane with the economy. But the number of vehicle sales would determine whether it was a good result or an extremely good one. "It should not really surprise us too much," said one analyst. "It would surprise us if they sold Cavill Avenue."   Despite being a seemingly incongruous fit, both Montana and Trust Investments were perceived in the market as being high quality, well-run businesses. CIL's share price, reflecting its improved fortunes, has almost doubled in a year. The stock traded today at NZ$0.56, just off its year high of $0.57. -- Wellington Newsroom (64-4-4734746)