Australia's home lenders may have to compete through efficiency and service rather than price alone following the recent cut in official interest rates. PUMA Management Ltd, the securitisation arm of Macquarie Bank, said that not all lenders could afford to pass through the full 50 basis points cut to 7.0 percent by the Reserve Bank on July 31, demonstrating that margins were 'cut to the bone'. "The reaction of both bank and non-bank lenders to the official rate cut perhaps illustrates the end of competition based on price," said PUMA director Frank Ganis.   Speaking at a conference in Sydney on the Australia's mortgage market, Ganis said: "All parties' operating costs appear to be at a level where any further margin reductions may become sub-economic." "Therefore, the success of the home loan originators, largely a function of attractive pricing, will continue and in future be supplemented by other features, such as efficiency and service," Ganis said. Ganis saw market share of non-bank mortgage lenders rising to 25 percent from a current level of 10 percent, although it will be divided between fewer players than currently exist.   Over the past 18 months, intense price competition from mortgage originators had forced banks to cannibalise their other loan products in order to compete in the mortgage market. "Smaller mortgage lenders, including regional banks, building societies, and non-mortgage managers, are finding it difficult to compete at lower mortgage rates," Ganis said. He added that regulatory pressure could force smaller players to remain in the mortgage market, despite the fact they were earning sub-economic margins on mortgages.   Speaking at the same conference, Macquarie Bank Ltd's chief economist Bill Shields said the increased availability of mortgage finance, at lower cost, represents one of the clearest benefits flowing from the deregulation of the financial system in the 1980s. "Housing affordability can be expected to improve further," Shields said. "Household disposable income should continue to rise, while variable mortgage rates will continue to fall, both because of competitive pressures and the likelihood of another official cut of half a percentage point in interest rates," he added.   -- Sydney newsroom 61-2 9373-1800