The traditional east-west relationship on gas oil (diesel) is changing due to the start-up of new Asian refineries, traders said on Thursday. The relationship does not work any more as the main Asian buyers of good quality western gas oil are either self-sufficient or can buy more cheaply from regional producers, one trader said. The east-west spread for gas oil is currently near parity, as measured by the first-month values of Singapore paper and International Petroleum Exchange (IPE) gas oil in the west.   Another trader familiar with such arbitrage trades said: "If you trade based on historicals and buy the spread then you could lose a lot as Asia is becoming more self sufficient." Thus it is more likely for Asian prices to be only slightly higher than western prices, rather than closer to double figures as was the case early this year, the traders said. Such sentiment is based on the big increase in refining capacity that has come onstream already or is due to do so later this year.   Singapore paper gas oil for September was talked on Thursday at $25.75, or $191.83 per tonne, against the IPE close for September on Wednesday of $191.75. This spread in the first half of this year was at $8-$15 per tonne in favour of the east but since July it has been between parity and $5 per tonne. "We have seen the spread go negative in the past before, but this was due to market abnormalities," one trader said. "This time its a structural change."   Thailand, a major buyer of good quality gas oil from the west in the past, is now an exporter. It had previously imported two to three 80,000-tonne cargoes a month but stopped the purchases in June. The other big Asian buyer, South Korea, has also turned into a major regional exporter. It will add another 450,000 barrel per day (bpd) refining capacity by the end of the year, bringing its total refining capacity to about 2.6 million bpd. The only country which may still buy arbitrage cargoes is Indonesia, but these are usually covered from the Mideast, traders said.   The east-west relationship will, however, not be totally lost as the MidEast producers will act as moderators, one trader said. MidEast product is priced off Singapore spot quotes less the freight it takes to ship products from there to the island. As a result, on average, free-on-board MidEast product would be priced at about $8 per tonne below Singapore. So if prices in the Mediterrean are high, Mideast producers would prefer to export there rather than sell to Singapore.   This would have the effect of reversing the east-west arbitrage, as prices in the west would soften and the east would firm. --Singapore Newsroom (+65-870-3093)