New Zealand investment company Brierley Investments (BIL) will report a NZ$320-350 million June year net profit on September 5 with the variation likely to depend on the level of provisioning, analysts said on Thursday. "If you took an optimistic view it could be as high as NZ$350 million, but that would be without any provisioning," said Hendry Hay McIntosh research director Robert Bode. Some analysts expect BIL to take a NZ$30 million writedown on its stake in U.S. company Everest & Jennings which has recently merged with Graham-Field Health Products Inc.   "I think they are going to take quite another big hit in terms of provisioning against their U.S. investments, so I wouldn't be overly optimistic," said one analyst, who declined to be identified. "The issue in the result is how much provisioning they are going to put through the P&L account." But ANZ Securities analyst Raymond Webb expects no provisioning and predicts a profit at the top end of the range. "With BIL they do have some capacity to manage earnings so it's always involves educated guesswork," he said.   BIL chief executive Paul Collins told shareholders at the end of May the profit would be over NZ$300 million but well shy of last year's $431 million. Collins recently told analysts the company's "intrinsic value" was between NZ$1.35-$1.40 per share against $1.25 last year. Analysts will be interested in the company's new figure, which most estimate will be around NZ$1.38. The current share price is $1.45. BIL is well on track to achieving Collins' target stated last September of achieving NZ$2 billion of intrinsic value within three years, analysts said.   The main reason is the jump in value of Thistle Hotels, which comprises half of BIL's consolidated assets. The jump in value of the British hotels and leisure sector has seen the estimate of Thistle's share price nearly double to around 1.10 pounds per share. BIL has announced plans to sell down its 70 percent stake in Thistle to under 50 percent next month. "They are feeling pretty smug at present because the rise in the market value of their investments," said one analyst. Profits on investments are expected to make up 45 percent of the 1996 profit at just over half the NZ$316 million last year.   Profits from selldowns include: NZ$65 million from Sky City Ltd, $15 million from GPG, $44 million from Skellerup and $14 million from Macraes Mining. The trading contribution of the profit will be up on 1995 with Thistle likely to contribute NZ$115 million against $92 million but that will be partially offset by a smaller contribution from Air New Zealand, 42 percent held by BIL. Analysts forecast BIL to make around NZ$380-$400 million in the 1996/97 year although the erratic nature of BIL's investment earnings make such forecasts problematic.   "The major determinant in the current year will be the gain on the sale of Thistle," said Webb. Analysts want BIL at its profit briefing to update information on speculated plays in Fletcher Energy, Progressive Enterprises and Coles Myer. "I'd be looking out for anything they had to say on any investments they have built up in the last six months," said one.   Webb said he was looking for more information on how BIL is interacting with the Asian Delham sydicate, which took a 20 percent stake in BIL in March and whether they can create new opportunities for BIL in Australasia. He said unless there was a surprise announcement, BIL had clearly signalled its focus would be primarily on Australia and secondly on Asia. -- Wellington newsroom 64 4 4734 746