The Broken Hill Pty Co Ltd (BHP) is weighing options for its BHP-New Zealand Steel mill at Glenbrook, which may involve halving its production of 700,000 tonnes a year, a BHP-NZ Steel spokesman said on Thursday. Evaluation of the plant was part of a world-wide study by BHP of its steelmaking operations and how it wants them positioned by 2010, BHP-NZ Steel's Human Relations Manager Ian Sampson told Reuters. BHP-NZ Steel had sought approval from the parent to spend another NZ$27 million in rebuilding a large piece of capital equipment called a melter, one of two at the plant.   Sampson said BHP-NZ Steel had planned to carry that work out in the middle of 1997. "We've been told that we can't have approval to do that at the moment, but we have been given some additional money to allow further design work for that project to continue," Sampson said. "The reason why we have not had that approval is because there is a larger study going on within the whole of BHP's worldwide steel operations looking at how the total steel business of BHP will be configured in the year 2010," he said.   BHP-New Zealand Steel was facing three options: continuing with the existing operation but with cost reductions; proceeding as a single melter operation without rebuilding the second; or closing the primary end of the plant. "A cut in production is possible but we don't know what the outcome of the study is likely to be at this stage," he said. If the plant became a single melter operation, it would be largely confined to servicing the New Zealand domestic market and some core export markets.   Closing the primary end would mean BHP-NZ Steel would serve its domestic customers by importing feestock material, probably from Australia, and processing it. Sampson said the company had advised its 1,600 employees of the study, a move that had attracted "adverse union comment". Unions had misinterpreted the move as a bargaining ploy ahead of the negotiation of a collective labour contract, due in the next two months. The study is due for completion within six to nine months. -- Wellington Newsroom (64-4-4734746)