Judges hearing a lawsuit launched by Indonesian democracy figurehead Megawati Sukarnoputri said on Thursday the case should go ahead after the contesting parties failed to reach an out-of-court settlement. Megawati filed the 51 trillion rupiah ($21.77 billion) suit against the government, military and party rivals saying her ousting from the Indonesian Democratic Party (PDI) leadership at a congress in June was illegal. "For the time being, an agreement has not been reached, so the suit will be read," head judge I Gde Ketut Sukarata told the packed court room at the Central Jakarta State Court. The three-member panel of judges then took turns at reading the plaintiff's suit and the defendants' responses during the hour-long hearing. The case was then adjourned to September 5 when Megawati's legal team is expected to respond to the defendants' statements. The government-backed PDI congress, held in Medan in north Sumatra in June, elected deputy parliamentary speaker Surjadi as party leader. Megawati was elected in 1993 for a five-year term. Megawati has sued Surjadi, Interior Minister Yogie Memet, Armed Forces Chief General Feisal Tanjung and national police chief Lieutenant-General Dibyo Widodo. "(The) Armed Forces chief has engineered and funded the participants of the congress. The defendant has misused the name and authority of the armed forces," said the suit. "We ask the court to rule the PDI's central executive board elected in 1993 is the one which has authority until 1998," it said. Witnesses said supporters shouting "Mega will win" outside the court were calmly moved on by riot police after the hearing. The case had opened just before 10 a.m. (0300 GMT) with the head of Megawati's legal team, R.O. Tambunan, telling the court the parties had been unable to reach agreement. "We have tried hard but we regret to tell you that we did not come to an agreement even though we have tried. We hope that in the future we can try again, but for now I suggest that the case continues," Tambunan told the court. Political analysts have said the government wanted to depose Megawati as PDI leader over concern for her vote-drawing power ahead of general elections next year. There were also concern she might challenge President Suharto, who has been elected unopposed six times, during the 1998 presidential poll conducted in a special session of the national parliament. Last month, the worst rioting in Jakarta for more than 20 years was sparked after police seized PDI headquarters from Megawati loyalists who had occupied the building since the June congress. Four people died in the rioting. The Jakarta Post newspaper said Surjadi was questioned on Wednesday by police as part of their post-riot probe. The Republika daily said Megawati, who has already been questioned twice by police, would be summoned next by officials from the Attorney-General's office for questioning in the subversion case against a left-wing activist and labour leader. Budiman Sudjatmiko, leader of the small People's Democratic Party which the government blames for instigating the riots, and independent labour leader Muchtar Pakpahan are in the Attorney-General's custody facing subversion charges. Subversion carries the death penalty in Indonesia.