Prosecutors arrested Japan's top expert on haemophilia and AIDS on Thursday in a widening scandal on charges stemming from accusations he knowingly administered tainted blood products to hundreds of patients. The Tokyo District Prosecutor's Office arrested Takeshi Abe, 80, on professional negiligence charges, a police spokesman said. The move follows legal complaints filed against Abe by the family of a haemophiliac who received unheated blood products from Abe's hospital team. The patient died of AIDS in 1991. Abe is under suspicion of using blood products which had not been heat-treated on haemophiliac patients, knowing that the products could have been tainted with the HIV virus. Prosecutors also raided Abe's home, the offices of the Health Ministry and Teikyo University in Tokyo, where he was a professor and vice president, on Thursday. "The investigation of involved parties including the Health Ministry will be a difficult but necessary ordeal for us to rebuild public trust," said Health Minister Naoto Kan. Abe, a specialist in haemophilia, headed a research team set up by the Health Ministry in 1983 to investigate the source of AIDS infection in Japan. He is believed to have influenced the team's decision in March 1984 to favour the use of unheated blood products instead of using safer heated products, such as cryoprecipitate. The Health Ministry did not ban the unheated products until December 1985. Last month, Abe testified in parliament that he had no choice but to use untreated blood products in the 1980s because cryoprecipitate was not easily available, and even if used tended to dangerously clog blood vessels. But media reports quoted specialists as saying it was possible to obtain cryoprecipitate at the time and that they had not experienced it clogging blood vessels as Abe said. Japanese media reports said Abe secretly asked U.S. researchers in 1984 to test blood samples from his haemophiliac patients in which over half tested HIV-positive. He did not tell the patients or publish the results. More than 2,000 haemophiliacs in Japan have become infected with HIV, the human immunodeficiency virus which causes AIDS, from tainted blood products. Thursday's arrest and raid was the second police action in the widening scandal. Prosecutors in Osaka, western Japan, last week raided the offices of drug maker Green Cross Corp on suspicion the firm knowingly sold HIV-tainted blood products, and questioned former company president Renzo Matsushita. The Health Ministry for years maintained it could not find documents on the case, but in February officials revealed files from the 1983 study group chaired by Abe indicating that ministry authorities were aware of the danger of HIV infection from unheated products. In March, Japanese haemophiliacs accepted an out-of-court settlement of a one-time payment of 45 million yen ($424,000) each, ending a seven-year legal battle against the state and five pharmaceutical firms, including Green Cross. "I'm glad that the issue is finally being treated as a criminal case," said Ryohei Kawada, one of the plaintiffs and himself a haemophiliac who came down with the deadly virus from untreated blood products. "Abe didn't do all this by himself. I hope future investigations will expose the responsibility of the Health Ministry and other bureaucrats," Kawada told reporters. Latest ministry figures show there are 1,154 people with AIDS and another 2,942 with the HIV virus in Japan, a nation of 123 million. About 400 haemophiliacs have already died from AIDS and AIDS-related complications, activists say. ($1=108 yen)