Key December Euroyen three-month interest rate futures closed Thursday slightly easier in directionless trade ahead of key industrial output data for July due on Friday. The fall was attributed to a correction after an overbought market on unexpectedly poor results of the Bank of Japan's tankan survey on Wednesday. Turnover of the March contract exceeded that of the December for the first time on Thursday.   The March is expected to take over benchmark status on Monday at the earliest if its turnover continues to exceed that of the December on Friday, traders said. The key December moved from 99.28 to 99.31 in turnover of 47,358 contracts. Turnover of the March was 48,060. It ended at 99.15 after moving in a range between 99.11 and 99.16. There was a growing view that the key December's rise would be firmly capped at 99.40-99.45 unless the BOJ loosens credit further, which is unlikely to occur for now, traders said. "Wednesday's high of 99.33 may provide a ceiling for the time being," said a dealer at a major securities house.   But downside room was also limited on Thursday on fears that weaker-than-expected industrial output data on Friday may cause a short-squeeze, traders said. Another reason behind the key contract's limited fall was that cash benchmark three-month certificates of deposit (CD) were issued unchanged from Wednesday's two-month low of 0.54 percent. A moderate 180 billion yen was issued, some of which were bought by institutional investors, traders said. "The tankan's results were shocking," a city bank dealer said. "Because of that, many started to believe there would be no rate rise by the BOJ throughout this fiscal year."   Some 20 billion yen of two-month CDs were issued at 0.53 percent. One-month CDs were issued at 0.54 percent, up from Wednesday's 0.51 because a premium was paid for the CDs which will mature after fiscal half-year book closings, traders said. On Thursday morning, the BOJ conducted a neutral money market operation, as expected. This kept the key overnight call rate at around 0.46 percent, unchanged from Wednesday. Without putting upward pressure on the key rate by causing a fund shortage via its daily operations, the BOJ may be able to stabilise it at or above 0.45 percent, as banks tend to roll over loans in short-term instruments ahead of book closings.