Grain traders continue to negotiate soymeal sales to China, but most are treading cautiously, anticipating a drop in meal prices later this year, traders in Hong Kong and China said on Thursday. With another 600,000 thousand tonnes of mainly U.S. and South American soymeal expected to arrive in the next two or three weeks -- according to one estimate -- and new crop Indian soymeal expected on the market in November, traders believe prices will weaken.   "It's all downhill from here," said one trader. He said that when more of China's soymeal purchases arrive in September, prices would drop and then slip again when India's exports hit the market in November. "We have sales every week, we are still negotiating new business," said a grain trader, adding "We are still selling, but we are being rather careful." "China has already bought about 50,000 tonnes of soymeal from India and will buy more," another trader said. "For India, parcels of 11,000 tonnes are most suitable and about five cargoes have been sold recently," he added.   According to another industry source, about 40,000 tonnes of that has arrived at ports in Shanghai and Guangzhou. Traders said meal prices were very firm at the moment, with offers on Thursday heard at about US$320 a tonne C&F China for U.S. origin meal. "It is risky to sell right now because the (Chinese) buyers may not open a letter of credit," one Hong Kong trader said. Grain traders worry that, should the market drop, Chinese buyers will refuse to open letters of credit on sales agreed when the price was higher.   "We don't know what the price will be when the cargo arrives, but it could be three to five percent lower," one grain trader said. "The market will hold above the $290-level, but it will certainly not hold at today's price," another source said. Grain sources said they were not surprised at overnight rumours on the Chicago Board of Trade that China was in the market for 80,000 tonnes of optional origin soymeal for September, but noted it could be a risk-laden transaction, with a price drop looming.   Some players are cashing in on the potential price drop by shorting the market, grain sources said. "Some big firms are choosing to sell (Indian meal) now when prices are high and buy it back later when they drop," one said, adding that this was a risky proposition should Indian cargoes be unavailable when the time came to cover positions. "If Indian meal is oversold or they default on cargoes, people (who are short) could lose a lot of money," he noted. This could be the last window of opportunity to cash in on China's soymeal import boom, other traders said.   "If you're buying on a back-to-back basis, you're not speculating," one grain trader said. "Next year you can very likely forget this business," he said, as China could change import policies without notice. About 80,000 tonnes of soybeans, probably from the United States, are expected to arrive in Dalian in early September, most likely for delivery to the Dalian Commodity Exchange against futures contracts, an industry source in Dalian said.   Another 57,700 tonnes of soybeans, also believed to be from the United States, were said to be discharging at Dalian and were destined for a Chinese crushing mill, Hong Kong and Beijing sources said. Soybeans wwere quoted at 3,500 yuan ($421) a tonne at Zhengzhou, while in Dalian soybeans were said to be offered at 3,200 yuan ($385) a tonne. -- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6358