Britains top military officer in Hong Kong on Thursday announced the start of a phased withdrawal of his forces from the last Asian outpost of Britains former empire. Major-General Bryan Dutton told a news conference the four-stage withdrawal would begin on Friday in preparation for the 1997 transfer of Hong Kongs sovereignty back to China. Dutton said he hoped Chinas Peoples Liberation Army (PLA), which will replace his troops on July 1, would behave as correctly as British troops had done during a century and a half of colonial rule. The PLA, whose tanks crushed the student-led pro-democracy movement in Beijing in 1989 with heavy loss of life, is to form the new garrison after the change of flag at midnight on June 30. We are now just about to start the final phase of the drawdown (of troops) in the next 10 months which will go from 3,250 from today to zero on July 1, 1997, Dutton said. British forces in Hong Kong comprise 3,250 personnel, drawn from the Army, the Royal Navy and the Royal Air Force. The withdrawal will be conducted in four stages which will see the closure of the Sek Kong airbase in the rural New Territories near Chinas present border; the HMS Tamar naval base on Stonecutters Island, just south of the Kowloon peninsula; a barracks on the Kowloon peninsula; and finally the Prince of Wales Barracks. We will depart on June 30 with our heads high and with style from the Prince of Wales Barracks and we will sail and fly away at that time, Major-General Dutton said. The British Navy would send a command frigate and a landing ship in April next year for the final withdrawal, he said. British forces would also charter some jumbo jets to get the boys out. Six weeks before the handover, manpower would be down to about 1,500, Dutton said. The British and Chinese governments are still discussing arrangements for the handover ceremony, and it is not clear how many troops will take part, if any. The arrival of Chinas PLA is viewed with some trepidation in this colony of 6.2 million people. Images of the PLAs 1989 crackdown against the students in Tiananmen Square remain etched in Hong Kongs memory. Chinas leaders, aware of the need to win the hearts and minds of Hong Kong people, have launched a public relations blitz to persuade them they have nothing to fear. I think all of that implies the PLA do wish to get it right, Dutton said. Although China refuses to reveal the number of forces it will station in Hong Kong, it has said it would send no more than the 10,000 Britain had stationed here at its peak level.