The World Trade Organisation's (WTO) success in freeing trade more than ever before is being negated by a slow down in growth in developed countries resulting in protectionist pressures, an expert said on Thursday. "Anti-dumping has become the most popular trade remedy among the industrialised countries ... developing countries have also joined the trend," Haiying Zhao, a professor at the School of Economics and Finance, University of Hong Kong told a seminar of academics from 10 Asian countries. In 1958, slightly over three-dozen anti-dumping orders were in effect in all GATT member countries. In 1990, Canada alone had over 100 orders. In the United States, one anti-dumping case was initiated in 1960, nine cases were initiated in 1970, 26 cases in 1980 and 42 cases in 1990, Zhao said. Zhao said the use of anti-dumping as a protectionist tool had increased as WTO rules made it difficult to raise tariffs. "Recent slow down in economic growth in developed countries have resulted in increasing protectionist pressure. Due to difficulties in raising tariffs, grey area protectionist measures such as voluntary exports restraints have gained importance. "Measures that are legally sanctioned under GATT/WTO such as anti-dumping measures have been increasingly used and/or misused for protectionist purposes," Zhao said in a paper presented at the seminar. The meeting is studying changes in the world's trading environment. A paper presented by Malaysian delegates said: "The (WTO's) liberalisation measures need to be examined to see whether they will effectively promote trade or can be disguised as trade barriers." The paper, presented by University of Malaya professors Mohamed Ariff, Mahani Zainal-Abiddin and Tan Eu Chye, cited non-tariff barriers to trade put up by some countries. It said Japan's multi-tiered distribution system which channeled products through several wholesalers and retailers pushed up an imported product's price by three times. It blamed the United States for seeking conformity to multiple technical, consumer and environmental protection requirements. The European Union was said to have put up a disguised trade barrier through a recent ruling which specifies the use of dedicated vessels to transport food items which will lead to an increase in freight costs. Other countries that the Malaysian delegation accused of putting up hidden trade barriers were Australia, Taiwan, China, Philippines, Indonesia and Thailand. -- Manila newsroom (632) 841 8934