Japan's ruling coalition appears set to weather a rebellion in its smallest party without having to call snap elections, buoyed by a pro-government court ruling on the divisive issue of U.S. military bases on Okinawa. Two events on Wednesday that could have rocked Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto's coalition -- a Supreme Court ruling on whether the central government could force Okinawa to appropriate land for U.S. military bases and a mutiny in New Party Sakigake -- both turned out in the coalition's favour. The court ruling freed Hashimoto from pushing through controversial legislation, while tactical mistakes by the Sakigake mutiny leader kept the number of rebels in non-threatening single digits. The developments take pressure off Hashimoto, who must call a general election by mid-1997 but had been expected to dissolve parliament for polls soon after it reconvenes in October, analysts said. The court decision upheld the central government's position that Okinawa Governor Masahide Ota had no right to block leases for military bases, since local governments were not responsible for defence. Although the ruling has not ended the bitter row between Okinawa and Tokyo -- the next round of which is a September 8 Okinawan referendum on the bases -- it removed the need for Hashimoto's government to push through parliament legislation to force Okinawa to secure land for bases. The legislation -- advocated by officials in Hashimoto's Liberal Democratic Party (LDP) to circumvent lengthy legal procedures -- was anathema to its partner the Social Democratic Party, a pacifist group which counts Okinawa as one of its only strong voter bases. The turmoil in Sakigake, smallest member of the three-party coalition formed in June 1994, passed with only a handful of coalition members indicating they would bolt with maverick Yukio Hatoyama to form a new grouping next month. Government spokesman Seiroku Kajiyama, a close Hashimoto ally, dismissed the revolt as an "off-course typhoon" that would have no direct impact on the government. Hatoyama's political grouping is likely to attract no more than 10 of the 23 Sakigake members and a handful of Social Democrats -- too small a bloc to erode the coalition's more than 50-seat majority in parliament's Lower House. "There has been no change in the sense of stability of the coalition," LDP Secretary General Koichi Kato told reporters. "The coalition has reaffirmed its solidarity," Kato said, echoing remarks made by other coalition leaders. Other LDP officials called for vigilance towards Hatoyama's group, because Hatoyama earlier this month hinted that his new party would back a possible opposition no-confidence measure against Hashimoto when parliament convenes in the autumn. Hoping to capitalise on the fluidity in the ruling camp, Tsutomu Hata, a senior official of the main opposition Shinshinto (New Frontier Party) and a former prime minister, on Thursday sent out feelers to Hatoyama's group. "They are all people of high calibre, but they lack numerical strength," Hata said. "If they are really interested in reform, I believe a coalition is possible." Shinshinto, which has been beset by internal strife and has squandered past opportunities to unseat Hashimoto's unwieldy coalition, is readying new weapons to attack the coalition when parliament convenes, party officials said. Shinshinto's first target is alleged loan and political funding improprieties involving LDP Secretary General Kato, who the opposition is trying to drag before a never-before-used parliamentary ethics committee. If the whiff of scandal is not enough to foul up the LDP-led coalition, Shinshinto plans to take aim at the ruling camp's unpopular plan to raise the consumption tax to five percent from the current three percent next April.