Cambodian government officials said on Thursday breakaway Khmer Rouge leader Ieng Sary must make peace and reenter society before being allowed to form his own political organisation. Ieng Sary and other Khmer Rouge dissidents, who broke from the mainstream rebel group earlier this month, risked jeopardising negotiations with the government if they set unacceptable conditions for a peace deal, the officials said. Ieng Sary, previously one of the top Khmer Rouge leaders, said on Wednesday he wanted peace and reconciliation with the government, was loyal to the king, and was setting up his own political organisation. "Ieng Sary can have whatever he likes but he can't do it now," Defence Minister Tea Banh. "Up to now there's no sign that he will join with the government completely." King Norodom Sihnanouk on Thursday sent a letter to Ieng Sary acknowledging an earlier communication, but the king did not reveal the contents of Ieng Sary's message. Ieng Sary's announcement came as negotiations between his breakaway group and the government appeared to be encountering some stumbling blocks. Tea Banh hinted the government might be losing patience and the talks could break down. "If it's the case that they don't agree with the government then we might still have the same situation as before," he said. The Khmer Rouge battled the Phnom Penh government through the 1980s after being ousted from power in early 1979 by a Vietnamese invasion. The radical guerrillas continued fighting the government which emerged from U.N-run elections in 1993. In his Wednesday announcement Ieng Sary, who was sentenced to death in absentie for his role in the Khmer Rouge's bloody rule, confirmed his split with paramount leader Pol Pot. He said he was setting up a group called the Democratic National United Movement (DNUM) to end the war and work towards reconciliation with the government. Government officials stressed peace and reintegration into society had to come before the dissidents could set up a political movement. "They can form a political party in future but first they must find a solution to intergrate into society," said Minister of Information Ieng Mouly. "Everyone must be under the constitution, under the law, to run a political party." Co-Premier Hun Sen said on Wednesday that despite 1994 legislation outlawing the Khmer Rouge, the government was willing to accept the rebels back. "Both sides want to get together but the Khmer Rouge are setting a lot of conditions," said one government source. An official from the Ieng Sary faction told reporters on the Thai-Cambodian border on Wednesday that they rejected a government proposal that troops be stationed in the dissidents' Phnom Malai and Pailin strongholds. Long Norin, an aide to Ieng Sary, said government troops would only be allowed into their zones after the next election, due in 1998, and said the dissidents wanted to take part in that election. But officials in Phnom Penh said the breakaway rebels should not be allowed to impose conditions, such as exclusive zones. "Unacceptable. There must not be any divisions, there must be only one Cambodia," said Ieng Mouly.