Hong Kong initial public offerings (IPOs) are set to accelerate now that the holiday lull is drawing to a close with more than 20 companies planning listings before the year-end, analysts said on Thursday. "At least 20 are coming up in the second half of 1996. The majority of them are raising less than HK$100 million in the market," said Michael Ng, analyst at ASG Brokerage. Analysts said market sentiment had improved in Hong Kong now that fears of higher interest rates had subsided, resulting in a more favourable listing environment. "An overall improvement in market sentiment has fuelled more new listings," said Tony Yung, research director from Tai Fook Securities. "The market is expected to favour the China-play new listings, especially ahead of the 1997 handover." Hong Kong will revert to Chinese rule on July 1, 1997. China-concept stocks -- Hong Kong companies with substantial business interests in China -- have become a focus in the British territory with investors hoping to cash in on a recovery in the Chinese economy. Analysts said overseas investors preferred them to the less transparent H-share firms. H-shares are stocks of Chinese companies listed in Hong Kong. Glorious Sun Enterprises Ltd, which is expected to issue 250 million new shares, or 25 percent of the expanded share capital, at between HK$1.40 and HK$1.60 per share, is tipped as one of the favourite China-concept plays, analysts said. The casual wear maker and retailer has over 400 outlets in China and also has a toehold in Australia. "It is likely to attract a strong response, especially from investment funds, because of its China play concept and strong fundamentals. It has a huge distribution network in China," Ng said. Analysts expected the public offering to begin in early September and the share listing in mid-September. "It would not be surprising for the issue to have a subscription rate of 50 to 60 times in view of the encouraging response so far in the market," Ng added. Analysts said other impending issues such as China Resources Enterprise Ltd's China Resources Beijing Land Ltd -- a pure China property play -- and Taiwanese sport shoe maker Pegasus Group, should also do well due to sound fundamentals. Pegasus Group is expected to raise about HK$1.5 billion to HK$2.0 billion in a public offering. Despite market caution towards H-shares, analysts expect a couple of Chinese companies to list in Hong Kong during the months ahead. Shandong Xinhua Pharmaceutical and Shenzhen Expressway are both attempting to raise funds, analysts said. "Response towards new H-shares listings is expected to be cautious because the recent poor earnings reports from some H-share companies dampened sentiment a bit," said Kinson Au, senior analyst at PW Asia Brokerage. Meanwhile, analysts said Hong Kong Dragon Airlines Ltd's long-awaited listing is expected to be pushed to the first quarter of 1997, giving way to the China Eastern Airlines flotation. The Shanghai-based airline is planning to list in Hong Kong and the United States by the end of the year, becoming the first Chinese airline to list its shares abroad. China Southern Airlines is also expected to list early next year after China Eastern, analysts said.