Singapores main opposition party appears to have shot itself in the foot, and the ruling Peoples Action Party Party (PAP) is taking full advantage ahead of elections due by April, analysts said on Thursday. They got a chance to expose the government on a sensitive issue, but blew it, said one analyst who, like most others commenting on the current drama, refused to be identified. The Social Democratic Party (SDP) set out to attack the government over health care subsidies earlier this month. It alleged before a parliamentary committee that the governments share of total health costs had dropped to five percent. The government replied that the figure was wrong and the SDP quickly backed down, admitting the number should have been 25 percent and blaming its blunder on a typographical error. This week Health Minister George Yeo formally charged four SDP leaders with contempt of parliament, accusing them of presenting fabricated evidence to the committee. Most prominent among those charged is SDP Secretary-General Chee Soon Juan, a trenchant government critic and a likely SDP candidate in polls expected by the end of the year. The SDP has three seats in the 81-member parliament and the Workers Party has one. The PAP, which has ruled Singapore since independence in 1965, holds the rest. It has taken the city-state to economic heights where per capita income now is greater than in Britain, the former colonial ruler. The opposition is keen to find a popular issue that would help it dent the PAPs dominance. In health care, the SDP thought it had found one. People are concerned about high costs of health care, flats and cars, a second analyst said. Chee and his company could not have done a worse job in an election year, he said. The real issue, which got sidestepped in the controversy, is how adequate are the present health care financing arrangements in Singapore for a rapidly ageing population, said an economist. The governments share in total health expenditure has declined as it implemented policies to shift more of the health care costs burden on the private sector, he said. If Chee and his colleagues are found guilty by parliaments committee on privileges, or ethics, they could be fined up to Singapore $50,000 (US$35,460), or jailed for the entire current session of parliament. They would, lawyers said, still be able to contest the elections since the law only debars candidates jailed by a court of law for at least a year or fined more than S$2,000. Parliament is not considered a court of law, they said. Yeo accused the SDP leaders of acting in contempt of parliament by fabricating data and presenting false and/or untrue documents with intent to deceive. There was a genuine human error on our part. Such errors do occur, Chee told Reuters, declining further comment. But Yeo, in a letter to the speaker of parliament setting out his charges, said Chees explanation of how the typographical error occured shows that he had presented the committee false documents with intent to deceive. The development has upset the small and weak opposition. The error was unfortunate, said opposition Workers Party leader J.B. Jeyaretnam. It has given a handle to the PAP to tar all us with the same brush, he told Reuters. They have now got an opportunity to tell people that we cannot be trusted as our information and figures are not reliable, he said. In the last general election in 1991, the opposition won four seats -- including three by the SDP -- and the opposition percentage of the vote increased. But the opposition has since had factional conflicts and has no single leader. The PAP has until April, 1997 to call the next election. Singapore prime minister Goh Chok Tong said recently there would be no polls before November.