The nominal leader of the divided Maoist Khmer Rouge, Khieu Samphan, is expected to join a breakaway faction of the guerrilla group led by Ieng Sary, dissident and Thai intelligence sources said on Thursday. Khieu Samphan, nominal leader of the Khmer Rouge since Pol Pot declared his retirement in the early 1980s, was living in fear in northern Cambodia, sources from the breakaway Khmer Rouge faction said. ...Khieu Samphan will join with our movement later, when the time is convenient for him and his family, Major Lock Lee of the breakaway faction told Reuters. Lock Lee said Khieu Samphan and his family were living in fear in an area under the control of one-legged Ta Mok, the Khmer Rouges most feared commander, who earned the nickname Butcher as Pol Pots hatchet man during the Khmer Rouge reign of terror in Cambodia from 1975-79. Sources within the breakaway faction said Khieu Samphan was not being held but that his movements were being watched. Political analysts have speculated that because of his moderate views, Khieu Samphan could be interested in joining the breakaway faction. They also said that while Pol Pot declared his retirement in the early 1980s, he was still the Khmer Rouges top leader. More than one million people died from execution, starvation or overwork in mass labour camps during the Khmer Rouge rule. Khieu Samphan represented the guerrillas in numerous rounds of peace talks in the late 1980s and early 1990s which led to the signing of a 1991 peace treaty between various parties in Paris. He returned to Phnom Penh after the peace treaty to represent the Khmer Rouge in the capital, but was attacked and beaten by a mob a few hours after he arrived. He was put on a flight out of the country later that day. Shortly afterwards the Khmer Rouge rejected the U.N. peace process and later boycotted a 1993 election and continued their war against the government. A senior Thai intelligence source who has long been dealing with the Khmer Rouge guerrillas also said Khieu Samphan would defect to the dissident faction. We learned that when the dissident faction forms a party, Khieu Samphan will be the leader... the intelligence source told Reuters. He did not say anything about Ieng Sarys position. Ieng Sary, foreign affairs minister during the Khmer Rouge government, confirmed on Wednesday that he had broken with Pol Pot and other hardliners of the Maoist guerrilla group and formed a rival movement. Ieng Sary, in his first statement on a split in the notorious rebel group, said that the new movement to be called the Democratic National United Movement (DNUM) would seek an end to civil war and work towards reconciliation with the Cambodian government. The hardline faction reshuffled its line-up right after the dissidents announced they were breaking from the Khmer Rouge. Khieu Samphan was not mentioned in the reshuffle list.