Philippine peace negotiators met for their final round of talks on Thursday to agree on the text of a formal accord to end 24 years of Moslem separatist rebellion in the south of the country. Negotiators from the Manila government and the Moslem Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) met late into Wednesday night in Jakarta to work out final details covering the integration of Moslem guerrillas into the Philippine armed forces and police. We face the final day of our long journey towards peace, government delegation chief Manuel Yan told the opening ceremony chaired by Indonesian Foreign Minister Ali Alatas. By the end of this day...an historic document shall have emerged from our hearts and minds, Yan said. Delegates will sign an interim agreement covering Thursdays fourth round of formal peace talks started in 1993, and put the finishing touches to the peace accord to end a conflict which has cost at least 125,000 lives. The accord will be initialled in front of Indonesian President Suharto at Jakartas Freedom Palace on Friday, with a formal signing ceremony in Manila next Monday. Surely, we are now on the threshold of...a just, comprehensive, honourable and lasting peace, MNLF Chairman Nur Misuari told the opening ceremony. Alatas issued a note of caution: A common lesson of contemporary peace processes is that it is one thing to achieve a peace settlement; it is quite another thing to make it work. It is after the Final Peace Agreement has been signed in Manila that the real hard work will begin. Indonesia has chaired a six-nation ministerial committee of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC) to facilitate and mediate in the talks. Delegates said the military integration issue was the last major problem that was resolved in talks that ended around 1 a.m. (1800 GMT) on Thursday. They included the rank and command structure for some 7,500 Moslem guerrillas to be integrated into the armed forces and the security (police) force in southern Mindanao province. Misuari described the meeting as hectic, but said he was quite happy with the outcome. Asked about the speed of integration, he told reporters: We dont have any specific timetable. We want to see integration as quickly as possible, probably two years or less. Asked how many MNLF guerrillas there were, Misuari said well over 30,000. He conceded there was still opposition from both Moslem and Christian groups in southern Mindanao province to the peace accord, which envisages a three-year transitional Southern Philippine Council for Peace and Development, followed by a plebiscite and full regional autonomy in 1999. Misuari said he would seek to persuade dissident groups, including the breakaway Moro Islamic Liberation Front and the fundamentalist Abu Siyyaf group, to accept peace. The peace deal that we are making now is peace for our whole people...one intended not only for the living, but for those who are still in the womb of time, he said, adding it should embrace all those ostensibly opposed to our peace-making activities. I believe that what we could not achieve through war, we could now achieve through peaceful means, he added.