The "tankan" survey of corporate sentiment by the Bank of Japan reflects only a temporary blip in Japan's economic recovery, Economic Planning Agency (EPA) Vice Minister Shinpei Nukaya told reporters on Thursday.   Nukaya said there was no need to think of the economy as stalling because of the worse-than-expected result of the tankan, which was released on Wednesday. He said the economy was still in a gradual recovery trend, though the recovery was not necessarily a smooth one. It was also not necessary for the EPA to drastically change its economic outlook, he said, adding: "There are no economic indicators which have appeared that would cause us to change our previous view." It was quite possible that the present recovery was different from past historical patterns of recovery, he said.   Now was a time of much structural change in the Japanese economy, and the recovery was only a gradual one of two to three percent growth a year, he said. Factors such as the effect on consumption of the food poisoning outbreak and delays in inventory adjustment by companies might have unexpected effects, Nukaya said. He added, however, that the downturn in business sentiment shown by the tankan was one that should be taken seriously, and that data such as employment, industrial production and gross domestic product figures for the April-June quarter would be closely watched to monitor the state of the recovery.   Asked about worrying factors such as a drop in world prices of semiconductors, Nukaya said its influence had not been fully reflected in the tankan data, but he did not expect it to have a huge effect on the recovery. "Semiconductors went a little overboard earlier, but they are now receding a little from that stage." Asked about closely watched industrial production data, he said that while it was important to watch if results for the July-September quarter matched forecasts, he believed the quarter would be a positive figure compared with April-June, which was negative. The tankan showed that the business outlook among major manufacturers had worsened since the previous survey in May, with the August diffusion index for major manufacturers at minus 7.