The governor of Okinawa was silent on whether he would comply with a Supreme Court ruling to forcibly appropriate land on his prefecture for U.S. bases as the southern Japanese island formally launched on Thursday a campaign for its first referendum on the bases issue. Governor Masahide Ota formally announced the prefecture would hold a non-binding referendum on whether U.S. bases should be phased out by 2015, urging voters to cast ballots on September 8 and promising to take the results to the central government and the United States. The campaign started the day after a 15-member Grand Bench ruled unanimously that Okinawa must appropriate land for U.S. military bases, rejecting an appeal by Ota that the military presence was unconstitutional. Following the verdict, central government officials pleaded that Ota comply with the court decision while promising to take administrative measures to lessen the burden on the island. "We will continue to work to lessen the burden on Okinawa and its people," Prime Minister Ryutaro Hashimoto told reporters in Lima, Peru, late on Wednesday. "The government policy to consolidate the bases on Okinawa is unchanged." Top government spokesman Seiroku Kajiyama on Wednesday urged Okinawa's government to "take into consideration the court decision and cooperate with the government". Ota said he would consult his lawyers before making a decision on whether to follow the court's orders. The bitter row between Okinawa and Tokyo erupted last year after the rape of an Okinawan schoolgirl by three U.S. servicemen, who were jailed earlier this year. The rape was a flashpoint for discontent over the fact that Okinawa is home to 75 percent of U.S. military bases in Japan and houses half of the 47,000 U.S. forces stationed in the country. Japanese media generally supported Wednesday's Supreme Court decision, which reasoned that the U.S. base issue is beyond the scope of the judiciary. Judge Itsuo Sonobe said in an addendum to the ruling: "It is true that military facilities are concentrated on Okinawa which is just 0.6 percent of Japan's total land, but this does not mean the judiciary can make judgments out of the ordinary on the constitutionality of these land appropriations." The conservative mass circulation Yomiuri Shimbun said in Thursday's editorial: "Both Okinawa and the central government must directly face this decision and work to resolve the 'Okinawa problem'." The ultra-conservative Sankei Shimbun published an editorial which urged Ota to comply with the court decision for national interests. Meanwhile, the liberal Asahi Shimbun criticised the Supreme Court for failing to address key constitutional rights, which Ota claimed were violated by the security agreement between Japan and the United States. "The Supreme Court has not addressed the constitutional principle of equality before the law and right of citizens to a peaceful livelihood, which was the key issue of this trial, and merely stressed the importance of the U.S.-Japan Security Treaty," Asahi said in its editorial. The Supreme Court denied Okinawa's requests to conduct hearings with island residents who were prepared to testify on their experiences about living near military bases and based the ruling purely on legal grounds. Ota is expected to make a decision on whether he will sign the land-lease contracts for U.S. bases after he sees the results of the referendum. Hashimoto will meet Ota to discuss the issue two days after the poll.