Japan's vehicle output rose in July as several car makers boosted production ahead of the launch of new models, but output is likely to stay flat or even fall in August before picking up again in September. Japan's vehicle production in July rose 9.5 percent from a year earlier to 953,010 vehicles, rebounding after falling the previous month, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association (JAMA) said on Thursday. "The July gain was mainly because carmakers increased output in July ahead of the summer holidays in August and several makers began producing new models," a JAMA official said. Toyota Motor launched a remodelled Carina sedan on August 7 and Windom luxury sedan on August 21 while Mazda Motor introduced the Demio on August 26. Nissan Motor launched the Terrano Regulus sport-utility vehicle on August 27 and Daihatsu Motor put out the Pyzar compact wagon on August 28. Mitsubishi Motors will introduce a new Galant and new Legnum station wagon on Thursday and Toyota is scheduled to introduce its new Mark II mainstay luxury sedan and its sister model in early September. Some other makers are also expected to launch several new models later this year such as Honda Motor with its S-MX new light minivan. The weaker yen probably led to higher exports in July, which in turn helped boost vehicle output, the official said. JAMA said it expected Japan's vehicle exports in July to have risen 13 percent from a year earlier. "In August, vehicle output is likely to be flat or just under year-ago levels because of the summer holidays. But in September and after, production is likely to mark gains because of the production of new models and ahead of possible strong domestic demand in January to March of 1997 ahead of an increase in the consumption tax," the official said. The Japanese government is planning to raise the consumption tax to five percent from the present three percent, effective April 1, 1997. Toyota's output jumped 16 percent from a year earlier to 310,165 in July, Nissan's rose 5.4 percent to 166,190, Mitsubishi edged up 0.1 percent to 108,439, Honda soared 18.5 percent to 94,944, and Mazda rose five percent to 63,593. JAMA also said Japan's overall vehicle sales, including 660cc minivehicles, rebounded in July. Sales rose 4.8 percent from a year earlier to 679,562 vehicles that month.