The Venezuelan government hopes to meet again with a Japanese consortium in early September to iron out a dispute over the Venalum aluminium refinery, after talks this week in Tokyo produced no agreement, said Elias Ynaty, president of Corporacion Venezolana de Guayana (CVG). "We haven't received any reasonable proposal from the Japanese," he told Reuters on Thursday morning. "We are very concerned." He added that failure to reach an agreement in September could mean that Venezuela's aluminium sector will not be privatised by the end of the year, as scheduled. No date had been set for the next round of talks, he added, although they would be held in Venezuela. Venalum, with capacity to produce 430,000 tonnes of refined aluminium per year, is the largest and only profitable enterprise of the four aluminium companies to be privatised. The Venezuelan government, which through CVG owns 80 percent of Venalum, has been locked in a dispute since the beginning of the year over veto powers held by a Japanese consortium, which owns the other 20 percent of the smelter.   In an effort to pressure the Japanese to relinquish those powers, Venalum suspended in February the 90,000-tonne-per-year ingot shipments stipulated in an equity agreement, noting that a supply contract with the Japanese had run out. The Japanese side argued it was entitled to the shipments under the equity agreement and that it would not discuss the veto issue until the shipments were resumed. Venezuela recently decided to ship 14,000 tonnes, about two months' supply under the equity agreement, to Japan in what it called a sign of good will ahead of this week's talks. Ynaty complained that the Japanese currently have the right to veto a wide variety of Venalum decisions, including any attempts to expand output, to make major investments in new technology, to liquidate the company or to combine it with the three other aluminium enterprises that are to be sold simultaneously with Venalum. He also reiterated the view that Showa Denko KK, the leading company in the Japanese consortium, was largely to blame for the lack of an agreement. "The only company (in the Japanese consortium) that has no other interest in Venezuela (besides Venalum) is Showa Denko," he said.   He said Marubeni Corp and Mitsubishi Corp were among the 17 companies that have registered as bidders in the aluminium privatisation programme. Marubeni is a member of the Japanese consortium, as are two Mitsubishi group companies other than Mitsubishi Corp. He noted that Marubeni and other Japanese consortium members have broad interests in Venezuela, including CVG's iron and steel operations and the country's petroleum sector, as well as Venalum. "I got the impression their comprehension is a little more flexible than Showa Denko's," he said. He added that the Japanese veto powers would not only reduce the value of Venalum when government shares are sold, but had also cast doubts on the transparency and fairness of the bidding process. "We have received (expressions of) concern of many companies that are participating in the bidding," he said. "They think the Japanese have some advantage in the bidding." He said a Venezuelan agreement with the International Monetary Fund earlier this year required that the aluminium sector be privatised by year's end. "If we get an agreement (with the Japanese) in September, we should make it in December," he said.