Japanese politicians are likely to seize on the nation's latest gloomy economic data to press for extra public spending as a quick fix to woo voters worried the economy may be slipping backwards. But private economists warn such measures would do little to promote the real reforms needed to ensure Japan's economy does more than putter along at low levels of growth. A key central bank survey showed on Wednesday that big manufacturers grew more pessimistic about business prospects, confounding predictions that corporate sentiment had improved. The Bank of Japan's quarterly corporate survey, or "tankan", showed the diffusion index for major manufacturers -- an important gauge of business sentiment -- fell to minus seven in August from minus three in the previous survey in May. Several economists said the surprisingly gloomy index did not imply that Japan's economy, struggling to emerge from a five-year slump, was in danger of sliding into recession. "The bears have got more ammunition," said Jesper Koll, chief economist at JP Morgan. "But it does not mean that recession is a danger. What it tells you is that the recovery is unbalanced." Much of the drop in the manufacturers' diffusion index was due to deteriorating conditions in basic materials industries such as steel, chemical and petroleum, which were hit by the recent depreciation of the yen, economists said. Major non-manufacturers grew less pessimistic, with their diffusion index rising to minus four from minus nine in May. Still, some economists said the possibility Japan would stumble on the road to recovery could not be ruled out. "There are many uncertain factors," Masaru Takagi, chief economist at Fuji Research Institute, said, citing worries over a food poisoning epidemic, pessimistic prospects for Japanese microchip makers, a fall-off in public work spending and a planned sales tax rise from next April. "There is a possibility that Japan might enter a light recession again." With interest rates already at rock-bottom levels since the Bank of Japan slashed its official discount rate to a record low of 0.5 percent a year ago, pressure for more government spending is certain to rise, economists said. Politicians are keen to have funds to woo voters ahead of a general election that pundits say could come as early as October, although none is mandated until July 1997. "In terms of policy, it's clear that the Bank of Japan can not move. It can not justify a rate hike," Koll said. "On the fiscal side, the argument for another supplementary budget to prevent fiscal policy from choking off the recovery is going to gather momentum," he added. Priming the pump with an added two or three trillion yen in a supplementary budget for the year to March 31, 1997 might help ensure demand was not dragged down as the impact of last year's mammoth stimulative package peters out. But economists point out that the punch delivered by pump-priming steps has diminished, while drafting heftier spending packages -- however attractive to campaigning politicians -- would worsen Japan's massive budget deficit. Finance mandarins are clearly keen to avoid that scenario. Japan enjoyed budget surpluses until 1992, but the balance has plunged into the red as the five-year slump and dwindling tax revenues forced the issuance of government bonds to finance stimulative packages. In gross terms, Japan's total indebtedness is now nearly 90 percent of output, and appears headed for 100 percent. This compares to an average of just under 74 percent for OECD nations. Economists said policy makers needed to tackle deep-seated structural obstacles to growth such as over-regulation, uncompetitive pricing and low productivity, but held out little hope of bold moves any time soon.