Shanghai Dazhong Taxi Co, the city's biggest taxi company, said on Thursday it planned to diversify into real estate, tourism and long-distance bus services after reporting a rise in net profit. In a company statement, the group announced half-year 1996 net profits at 55.954 million yuan, up from 51.832 million in the same 1995 period, on turnover of 280.805 million yuan, up from 213.27 million. "We plan to diversify but retain transport as our core business, with taxis as the core of that business," a company spokesman said. "Transport is where our expertise is." The Shanghai city government did not issue a single new taxi licence in 1995, he said. With Shanghai involved in widespread road re-development, the city government is likely to restrict the number of new licences and may start auctioning licences, as other cities have done, he said. The statement said that in the first half of the year, the company had achieved 56.75 percent of the total 1996 turnover target and 50.86 percent of total 1996 profit target.   It had improved its taxi fleet by adding the latest Santana model and diversified into car leasing, house removals and long-distance bus services, it said. The company also continued to develop its real estate business, despite difficult business conditions, achieving post-tax profits of 5.18 million yuan, 51.8 percent of the target for the whole year, the statement said. The firm has also set up an international travel company to expand on its business of domestic tourism, it added. The company has a total of 1,750 taxis, the spokesman said. Some foreign brokers recommend a "hold" on the stock. Sasoon Securities said the company was being hit by restrictions by the Shanghai city government on new taxi licences, a drop in the prices of second-hand cars and increasing dependence on income from outside its core taxi business. A second broker warned that such diversification would involve more risks for the company, although he expressed confidence in the company's management to run such ventures successfully.