Sprucely attired in a meticulously pressed suit, China-born lawyer Simon Meng toils through thick files in Hong Kong every day, advising overseas clients interested in investing in China. He is one of the China-bred elite who have flocked to the British colony to tap the gleaming opportunities offered by the metropolis as it prepares to return to China in 1997. "With the globalisation of the (local) economy, there are more and more transactions," said the 38-year-old lawyer. A swarm of well-informed and cosmopolitan Chinese, born and brought up in China, have snapped up jobs in recent years, jumping on Hong Kong's economic bandwagon. Some of them have been lured by the handover of Hong Kong, a British colony for 150 years, to Beijing in mid-1997. "As so many people have emigrated ahead of the sovereignty transfer, there're more chances for me," said China-reared Ma Guonan, a regional economist at Bankers Trust. Thousands of Hong Kong people have left in the past decade, joining an exodus of people anxious about the prospect of life under China's communist regime. But, under China's growing affluence, an increasing number of mainland Chinese have been pursuing studies in the West and many have come to work in Hong Kong to witness the sovereignty transfer, said Ma, who is in his thirties. "Now a lot of Chinese people are educated outside of China...there are thousands," said Meng, who works for law firm Freshfields. Equipped with solid knowledge of China, and with Western qualifications, they are in hot demand in Hong Kong, where companies have numerous business dealings with the Chinese. "People treasure them very much because Hong Kong people pay great attention to human capital," Ma said. He said employers considered his China background an asset. This new breed in Hong Kong, better off than many locals, lead a comfortable life in contrast to the mainland labourers here who live from hand to mouth. Meng lives in the upmarket district of Hong Kong Island known as Mid-Levels. Horse-riding, considered a high-society sport, is among his hobbies. There are no official figures on the number of middle-class mainland Chinese employed in Hong Kong, but the steady growth in their presence has been highly visible. In recent years mainland Chinese who have lived abroad for two years or more, and graduates from 30 designated Chinese universities who have work experience, have been allowed to apply for jobs in Hong Kong as professionals, but there are limited quotas. "Hong Kong belongs to China. I feel no stranger here, but I can be a little bit homesick overseas," said Tao Zhigang, a lecturer at the Hong Kong University of Science and Technology. For him, Hong Kong's attraction lies in the convenience in collecting information for research. Others like the pay, which in some professions is generous by Chinese standards. "As an academic, I need a stable environment and a stable income. In China, the income for a lecturer is very low," said a China-born lecturer who declined to be identified. A university teacher's monthly salary ranges from HK$30,000 (US$3880) to over HK$100,000 in Hong Kong, but is usually well below 1,000 yuan (US$120) in China. But some say they are not here for the money, insisting that Chinese businesses can also make good offers. "I have a lot of friends...working for companies in China. They have a much better life than me," Tao said. "They have their own house," he went on. "All my friends were educated in the United States. They all get very good jobs in China. Actually, they get better jobs than me. That's why a lot of my friends are asking me why I am staying at the university" While Chinese blue-collar workers in Hong Kong often suffer discrimination from locals, these Chinese professionals claim they encounter little discrimination here. "I do think there was some discrimination," said Tao, who has been working in Hong Kong for four years. "I think things have improved very much." He attributed the improvement partly to Hong Kong's forthcoming reversion to Chinese rule. (US$1=HK$7.73 or 8.31 yuan)