Consumer confidence has fallen across much of Asia, with Singapore, Hong Kong, Taiwan, Malaysia and the Philippines the main exceptions, according to a survey published on Thursday. Mastercard International said that its latest six-monthly Masterindex survey of consumer confidence in 12 countries of the Asia-Pacific region showed that consumer confidence in Singapore was at an all-time high. But the survey said consumer confidence had dropped in Japan despite indications that the economy is recovering. It said Japan scored 35 points, down from 42.6 points in the last survey, largely due to a very pessimistic view of regular income and quality of life. Confidence had also declined in New Zealand, Australia, Indonesia and Thailand, while the outlook in India and South Korea was virtually unchanged, it said. Korean consumer confidence remained relatively low at 58.6 points, almost identical to the 58.4 points returned in the last survey. Concern about the economy and employment were key factors, the survey said. Referring to Singapore, the survey said that a positive outlook on the quality of life and regular income had boosted that country's score. It said Singapore's Masterindex was 84.5 points, up from 75.4 in the fourth quarter of 1995. Singapore's previous high of 82.6 points was recorded in the fourth quarter 1993. In Hong Kong, consumer confidence was up dramatically, despite a widespread belief that the handover to China at the end of June next year would bring with it a drop in confidence. Mastercard said Hong Kong scored 53.6 points, up from 37.3 points in the last survey. It said Taiwan rebounded from an all-time low score of 44.5 points in the last survey to 56.7 points this time, mainly due to a marked improvement in the outlook on employment and the economy. It said the survey was conducted in June with 400 respondents in middle and upper income groups in each country. They were asked about five economic factors -- employment, the economy, regular income, the stock market and quality of life. Mastercard said the scores were based on percentage response figures, with zero the most pessimistic and 100 and most optimistic. -- Singapore newsroom 65-8703080