Palestinians were set to heed on Thursday President Yasser Arafat's call to observe the first general strike in the West Bank and Gaza Strip in two years to protest Israeli policy on settlements and Jerusalem. Arafat on Wednesday lashed out against Israel, saying its policies amounted to a declaration of war and called a half-day general strike "for Jerusalem" in protest. "What happened concerning continuous violations and crimes from this new Israeli leadership means they are declaring a state of war against the Palestinian people," Arafat said. Hours after Arafat's statement gunmen shot and wounded two people when they fired at an Israeli commuter bus in the West Bank in an attack some Israeli commentators said may be linked to the Palestinian leader's remarks. Arafat slammed Israel's decision to expand the Jewish settlement of Kiryat Sefer in the West Bank and its demolition of a community centre in Arab East Jerusalem during a session of the Palestinian legislature in Ramallah in the West Bank. The Palestinian Legislative Council demanded on Wednesday a halt to contacts with Israel until the Jewish state honoured its peace pledges. Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, responding to Arafat's strongest attack on his right-wing government since its election in May, said Israel would view as "very grave" any attempt to step up tensions or violence. In an apparent effort to quell tensions, Israel's Foreign Minister David Levy telephoned Arafat and told him Tuesday's demolition in Jerusalem was not politically motivated. "In relation to the demolition of the building in the old city the foreign minister...requested to make clear to Arafat that this was not an action on behalf of the government," a foreign ministry statement said. It said the demolition was carried out by the municipality. The municipality said the structure was built on public property without the proper permits. After speaking to Arafat, Levy telephoned Jordanian Prime Minister Abdul Karim al-Kabariti and briefed him on the conversation. Kabariti will travel to Palestinian-ruled Ramallah on Thursday to meet Arafat. During the general strike, shops, businesses and schools will be closed. It will be the first strike in both areas since Israel handed over parts of the West Bank and Gaza to Palestinian self-rule in 1994. Arafat also called on Palestinians to flock to East Jerusalem for Friday prayers but most will be prevented by an Israeli closure imposed on the West Bank and Gaza six months ago after a spate of Moslem suicide bombings. Israel captured East Jerusalem in the 1967 Middle East war and claims both halves of the city as its capital. The PLO wants East Jerusalem as the capital of a future Palestinian state. Israeli officials said at least two gunmen carried out Wednesday night's attack near Bethlehem. They said some 15 shots were fired at an Israeli bus making its way to the Jewish settlement of Kiryat Arba near Hebron, lightly wounding two people. After the attack Israel declared Bethlehem a closed military area and conducted a large manhunt for the gunmen. Witnesses said Israeli troops arrested a Palestinian suspected of carrying out the attack. The Israeli army said it was checking the report. Palestinians have been pressing Israel to carry out a long-delayed partial troop pullout from the flashpoint city of Hebron agreed by the previous Israeli government. The current government said it is studying the situation.