Israeli Defence Minister Yitzhak Mordechai has approved plans, frozen by the previous Labour government, to build more homes in existing Jewish settlements in the West Bank, his spokesman said on Thursday. The spokesman, Avi Benayahu, declined to say how many housing units would be built. Israeli media reports put the number at between 2,000 and 3,550. "The minister approved a number of construction plans in existing settlements. These are building plans which had been approved in the past by the (Labour) government and later frozen," Benayahu said in a statement. Mordechai's decision was certain to anger Palestinians, who observed a strike called by President Yasser Arafat in the West Bank and Gaza on Thursday to protest against the right-wing Israeli government's policies on settlements and Jerusalem. Israel's opposition Labour party condemned the planned construction, saying the Likud-led government of Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu was sending the wrong message to the PLO. "The (government's) provocation of the Palestinians is clear," former tourism minister Uzi Baram told Israel Radio. "It is playing with a powder keg that puts all of us in great danger." The Maariv newspaper said Israel would add 700 housing units to the settlement of Kiryat Sefer, 1,050 to Hashmonaim, 900 to a nearby Jewish seminary, 200 to Matityahu and 700 to Betar Ilit. All are in the West Bank, near the pre-1967 Middle East war border. Israel Radio put the number of new homes at 2,000. Benayahu said Mordechai's approval was in line with the decision by the Netanyahu government to cancel the previous administration's building freeze in the West Bank. Israel's announcement on Tuesday of a plan to build a new neighbourhood in Kiryat Sefer sparked accusations from Arafat on Wednesday that the Jewish state was declaring war on Palestinians. Netanyahu's government, which took office in June, lifted a freeze on Jewish settlement building in the West Bank and Gaza Strip imposed by the Labour government in 1992. Palestinians want to establish an independent state in the West Bank and the Gaza Strip. Some 130,000 Jews have settled amidst the nearly two million Palestinians in the territories since Israel captured them in the 1967 Middle East war. Israel's Housing Ministry said on August 20 that it was drafting a plan to approve construction of 5,000 new homes in the West Bank.