U.S. Senate Intelligence Committee chairman Arlen Specter said on Thursday he had delivered a letter from Israel's prime minister to Syria's president but failed to bridge gaps over resumption of peace talks. Specter declined to reveal the contents of the letter that Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu asked him to give to President Hafez al-Assad. He told reporters he hoped peace talks between the two sides would resume but gave no indication that it would be soon. "President Assad said...he did not see hope for peace or realism for peace based on what Mr Netanyahu has been saying," Specter told reporters about his trip to Syria on Wednesday. Syria wants back the Golan Heights, seized by Israel in the 1967 Middle East war. Netanyahu, who ousted Nobel peace laureate Shimon Peres in May elections, refuses to give up the strategic plateau Israel annexed in 1981. Syria said this week it was willing to resume peace talks in Washington at the point where they broke off in March after a wave of Moslem suicide bombings in Israel. Netanyahu's government has said it would not be bound by unwritten understandings reached in negotiations conducted by the previous government. While Peres had stopped short of committing Israel to a full withdrawal from the strategic plateau, he had said he could not envisage Syria making peace without getting back the Golan. The Pennsylvania Republican senator said he had proposed to Assad that the two sides start talks where the Peres government left off, with "certain exceptions" determined by Netanyahu. Specter said the idea fell flat. "They haven't agreed to that," he said. The senator also said he raised with Assad Netanyahu's "Lebanon First" proposal, which calls for an Israeli troop pullback from a south Lebanon occupation zone in exchange for security guarantees, as a precursor to peace with Syria. Syria, the main power in Lebanon with 35,000 troops there, repeated its rejection of any peace deal without the Golan. Specter, who held talks in Saudi Arabia earlier in the week over a June fuel truck bombing in Dhahran which killed 19 U.S. servicemen, said he held a "very, very extensive discussion" with Assad on the issue of terrorism. The Intelligence Committee chairman, who has questioned whether U.S. Defence Secretary William Perry should resign over the latest bombing in Saudi Arabia, said he gave Assad a long list of what Washington says are terrorist groups harboured by Syria. Specter came to the Middle East after visits to Japan, South Korea and China.