The head of a Czech chemical warfare monitoring unit in the Gulf War reiterated in remarks published on Thursday that Iraqi nerve gas drifted over allied positions in northeast Saudi Arabia during the 1991 conflict. Colonel Jan Valo added in a letter to Kuwait's English-language Arab Times that he was confident that people in the area for which his team was responsible protected themselves against the gas thanks to warnings provided by his team. "Due to the fact that our unit was equipped with very sensitive indication instruments and chemical laboratories, we were able to measure and record in time even small concentrations of chemicals in the air," he wrote. "Chemical alert was declared immediately and I am sure that people protected by our unit and following our instructions avoided later health troubles," wrote Valo, former commander of the Czech Chemical Warfare Unit. The unit was part of a U.S.-led alliance based in Saudi Arabia that ended Iraq's seven-month occupation of Kuwait in the January and February 1991 war. Valo was asked by the newspaper to comment on media reports this month that said a study by the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency had projected that U.S. air attacks on Iraqi chemical wepons plants including the Muhammadiyat plant west of Baghdad during the Gulf war had sent clouds of Sarin nerve gas blowing towards allied positions in Saudi Arabia. The reports also said separate attacks on six Iraqi chemical weapons storage and production sites on January 17-18 1991 caused further releases that were detected by allied monitors. Valo commented: "I can confirm that the information in the articles is true and corresponds in full to what we discovered in the war. The concentration of chemicals mentioned in your article was really measured by us during this period." The CIA study, using a computer projection, found that in the worst case an estimated 2.9 metric tonnes of Sarin were released into the air in the attacks, media reports have said. A low-pressure weather front kept low-level Sarin vapour in the air over Hafr al-Batin in northern Saudi Arabia, reports said. Valo said his main area of responsibility was King Khaled Military City and what he called the 4th and 20th Saudi Arabia Brigade. He made no comment on the degree of chemical protection for people outside his unit's area of responsibility. U.S. Gulf War veterans have pointed to the Czech monitors' evidence to argue that the Pentagon has not taken seriously reports of Iraqi chemical weapons use. Gulf War Syndrome, a mysterious combination of ailments such as fatigue, flue, joint pains, blood disorders and memory-loss, has been reported by hundreds of American and British veterans. Valo's letter made no reference to U.S. reports this week that the U.S. Defence Department intentionally quashed a 1991 classified report suggesting that U.S. troops were exposed to Iraqi chemical weapons in the Gulf War. The Pentagon on Wednesday denied it covered up the report but conceded it was not investigated until this year.