Police investigating a Belgian child kidnapping, porn and killing scandal that has stunned Europe prepared to dig for a third day on Thursday at one of six houses owned by chief suspect Marc Dutroux. "Our first mission is looking for bodies. We don't know how many there could be," Gendarmerie Commander Johan Dewinne said on Wednesday after police spent a fruitless day excavating at the site in Jumet, near Charleroi in southern Belgium. "Jumet still has not delivered up its secrets," popular daily Vers L'Avenir said in its front page headline. "The macabre searches at Jumet will continue to the finish," Francophone paper Le Soir declared. Dewinne has said he hopes to wrap up excavations there by late Friday. In all 11 sites will be searched in coming days. Searches for bodies and clues have focused on teenagers An Marchal and Eefje Lambrecks, whom Dutroux, 39, has admitted kidnapping a year ago. Their fate remains unknown although police have expressed some hope they are still alive. The nation went into shock on August 17 as Dutroux led police to the bodies of eight-year-old friends Melissa Russo and Julie Lejeune in the garden of another house he owns. Dutroux's accomplice Bernard Weinstein, whom he admitted killing, was buried nearby. Two other girls, Laetitia Delhez, 14, and Sabine Dardenne, 12, were rescued on August 15 from a makeshift dungeon in another of the houses Dutroux owns. Described as cold and manipulative, Dutroux was released 10 years early in 1992 for good behaviour from a 13-year sentence for multiple child rape, violence and illegal imprisonment. Dutroux, a father of three, and an associate Michel Lelievre have been charged with abduction and illegal imprisonment. The lawyer who defended Dutroux in 1989 on the rape charges has refused to do so again on moral grounds. Britain's Superintendent John Bennett who supervised excavations in the Fred and Rosemary West serial murder case in England two years ago, was present at Jumet on Wednesday. There were also fresh searches at other sites including the house in Sars-La-Buissiere where Melissa and Julie were hidden. Dutroux said the girls, who disappeared in June 1995, starved to death early this year, He denies killing them but admits paying accomplices 40,000 francs ($1,300) to kidnap them. They were buried in the city of Liege a week ago after what amounted to a state funeral amid outpourings of grief and anger. As the searches continued in Belgium, Dutroux was named in Bratislava as a suspect in the murder of a young Slovak woman. The Slovak office of Interpol said he was also believed to have planned the kidnapping of at least one other Slovak woman. So far 10 people have been arrested in what has now become known as the "Dutroux Affair", including Dutroux' second wife Michelle Martin, who has been charged as an accomplice. Martin and Lelievre were interrogated again on Wednesday. There has been widespread anger over revelations of police bungling, and the Justice Ministry has ordered an inquiry. A chief police detective has also been arrested on fraud charges, fuelling questions about a possible high-level cover-up. There is also widespread disbelief that no one appeared to question how Dutroux, an unemployed father of three with no visible means of support, managed to own six houses.