With its palm-lined terraces and colonnades, Kuwait's new government headquarters is winning praise as an architectural triumph and elegant national symbol. But the grand seafront edifice has also provoked boos from critics appalled by its $600 million cost and drawn fire from lawmakers who see it as just one example of state profligacy. "It's a waste of money and time. It's another white elephant," bluntly spoken economist Abdul-Aziz Sultan said of the headquarters and other costly state projects. Allegations of government waste -- strongly denied by ministers -- are blocking Kuwait's attempts to introduce a measure of austerity and recover financially from Iraq's 1990-91 occupation and the Gulf War that ended it. Many Kuwaitis say they will never accept paying tax, or even higher electricity, water or telephone bills, as long as they see the government lavishing cash on non-productive projects. At stake is the political stability of a country of 1.8 million that owns a tenth of the world's oil, diplomats say. If the state cannot find a long-term solution for its budget deficit, then in a decade Kuwait will have spent its nest egg of overseas reserves on plugging the gap -- money it must keep on hand to pay any unexpected defence costs in the volatile Gulf. And unless Kuwait can boost state revenues and get private firms to employ more Kuwaitis, it will not meet the hopes of a rapidly growing population for the jobs and cradle-to-grave welfare and subsidies enjoyed by earlier oil boom generations. Almost all Kuwaitis, traditionally expensive and not greatly productive employees, work for the government and are raised on the notion that the nanny state is the ultimate provider. Expanding the government to employ ever larger numbers of graduates will eventually bankrupt the state, economists say. Unprecedented belt-tightening is needed, diplomats say, such as introducing tax on Kuwaiti companies and maybe also starting income tax on individuals -- both hitherto unknown -- as well as bold privatisation and measures to boost private investment. "Unless we take tough decisions and adopt new policies, we may face the same prospect of Bahrain and Saudi Arabia -- people standing in line for jobs," says economist Jassem al-Saadoun. The idea of joblessness alarms a country that earns $1 billion a month from oil and traditionally smothers economic unrest with a fat cushion of welfare benefits and handouts. Critics say that, paradoxically, a recent bout of economic success could delay reform by making the government complacent. The state oil industry recently announced record profits, gross domestic product grew a healthy eight percent in 1995, activity on the stock exchange is unprecedentedly high and firms including commercial banks are making record earnings. Holders of multibillion-dollar debt originating in a 1982 stock crash surprised observers by starting repayments. And the bloated budget deficit -- product of the Gulf War and oil sector reconstruction costs -- is believed to have shrunk last year. But many of the successes are due to higher-than-expected prices for Kuwait's main commodity -- oil. And most new jobs are taken by an ever expanding army of cheap Asian guest workers. Some believe the government, far from using the successes as an economic breathing space to pursue painful reforms, will instead see the good news as evidence that the problem is over. "These good indicators may make the government relax and adopt bad policies. This is a big danger," says Saadoun. "The structural deficit that would arise if oil prices remained constant at just $13 a barrel still needs to be addressed," said Randa Azzar, chief economist at National Bank of Kuwait, the largest commercial bank. Prices for Kuwaiti oil have been running at $15 for much of the past 18 months. "Employment is obviously the primary issue in terms of restructuring and privatisation," she said. Diplomats say Kuwait's record of dithering on economic reform does not augur well, a view implicit in a World Bank critique of a government plan to eliminate by the year 2000 a deficit running on average at over $3 billion annually. "Even if the government was determined to reform, it lacks the managerial infrastructure to execute it," said Sultan. The plan says the state should consider cutting subsidies, increase customs fees and start telephone charges for domestic calls, now free. But the World Bank notes the plan does not list, or is vague about, many of the steps to be implemented. Diplomats say that altering a social contract so dependent on the welfare state has explosive political implications that the government has shown itself unwilling to address. In April 1994, Prime Minister Sheikh Saad al-Abdulla al-Sabah lashed out at "waste" and called on Kuwaitis to accept unspecified sacrifices to tackle the deficit. But 2-1/2 years later, no significant structural economic reform has happened.