A French aircraft on Thursday brought 12 Tunisians expelled by France back to Tunisia and was due to fly on to other African countries with more immigrants, eyewitnesses said. The Eyewitnesses saw the 12 young Tunisians disembark from a Boeing 737 at 12.30 a.m. (2330 GMT) at the Tunis-Carthage airport. The Tunisians told journalists that some two dozen black Africans remained on board the plane which they believed was to fly on to Niger and Zaire. A French official accompanying those on board would not confirm the number of Africans on the plane or the destination after Tunis. He also declined to say from which French airport the aircraft had taken off. "I am not authorised to make statements," he said. French handling of the illegal immigration issue has become a hot topic since 300 African protesters, 10 of whom had been on hunger strike, were dragged out of a Paris church in a controversial police raid last week. Thousands of demonstrators marched through Paris on Wednesday to demand that expulsion orders be repealed and immigration laws reviewed. Protests against France's tough immigration policies were spurred by rumours on Wednesday that the government was about to fly out two planeloads of Africans. Witnesses said 15 Africans were taken aboard a wide-bodied Airbus A-310 which took off from Evreux airbase north of Paris. Several of the deported Tunisians said they had been illegal immigrants in France for many years but others said their residence permits were in order and that they were married to French women and had children born in France. "I have been living in France for 27 years and I have a regular 10-year resident card. I am married with a French woman and my three children are French citizens," said a 44-year old man who asked to be identified only by his initials H.B. "I was to be freed from the prison of Grasse (in southern France) within 15 days...I was not allowed to contact my wife, who is a French Algerian-born citizen, nor my son, who is a French citizen," Lamine Driss, 34, said. A group of Tunisian human rights activists welcomed the deportees at the airport. "It is a shame for France to behave like that with Africans, including Tunisians, who gave it too much," Hassib ben Ammar, who received in 1993 a United Nations Human Rights Award, told journalists at the airport.