Analysts said Baxter International Inc's deal to acquire Swiss-based Immuno International AG for around $715 million would help both companies by melding their complementary strengths. Immuno makes a range of blood products used in transfusions, and the union is designed to create a leading provider of services for transfusion medicine, including biopharmaceuticals. "Immuno has good, high-quality products but the problem is that with recombinant products hitting the market the growth potential for products such as Immuno's was fairly limited," said Michael Sjostrom at Pictet & Cie in Geneva. "This makes sense for both companies. Baxter has a strong franchise in Recombinant Factor 8 and Immuno has the best blood products around, so together they can make something sensible."   "In my eyes this was fairly well valued," said another Swiss pharmaceuticals analyst who asked not be named. He said Immuno could have had trouble finding a buyer because of its rare combination of blood plasma and vaccines businesses. Immuno bearer shares rose marginally to hit a peak of 889 francs in early trading before settling back to 885 francs, just above the previous close at 883. The companies said Baxter would offer 900 francs for bearers once cartel authorities in the European Union and United States cleared the transaction. Baxter plans to acquire the rest of Immuno's shares within three years of buying its first shares.   Immuno posted a pre-tax profit of 38.8 million francs in 1995, down from 43.5 million in 1994. Operating profit dipped to 61.3 million from 67.3 million on sales of 625.5 million, down from 636.3 million. Immuno board member Rolf Fuchs declined to give an earning forecast for 1996, but said the company would announce first-half results within the next two weeks. He said Baxter's public offer for Immuno bearer shares would follow soon after European Union and U.S. cartel authorities cleared the deal, but he gave no date. Immuno's shares are quoted in Switzerland and its financial headquarters are located in Zollikon, outside Zurich. But its main research and production facilities are in Austria, where the company was founded. Fuchs said the deal brought together companies who fit well together. "Probably the two companies are made for each other. We are in very strong in eastern and western Europe, Baxter has a strong position in Asia and the United States," he told Reuters. "Our product lines are also complementary. This makes sense market-wise and geographically." He said blood-plasma products accounted for around 85 percent of sales and vaccines for 10 to 12 percent. -- Michael Shields, Zurich newsroom +41 1 631 7340