German Foreign Minister Klaus Kinkel said on Wednesday that substantial work still had to be done before the the European Union could accept new members but its enlargement was just a matter of time. The EU has reached association agreements, aimed at preparing them for full membership, with Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary, Latvia. Lithuania, Poland, Romania, the Slovak Republic and Slovenia. Cyprus and Malta have also applied to join. "For them it's not about 'whether' (they will join), but about the 'how' and the 'when'," Kinkel told a conference on European integration in the Tyrolean mountain resort of Alpbach. "The enlargement is necessary and there are no alternatives." Kinkel, who earlier assured the foreign minister of the three Baltic states that Germany would continue to support their case for early admission, said prospective members had no choice but to adjust to the EU's political and economic standards. "Justified expectations should not be dashed, but on the other hand we can't sacrifice hard-won European progress," he said. "It has to be done properly, otherwise the whole idea of integration is in danger." He said the candidates would have to prepare thoroughly for membership, both politically and economically. "There can and will be no short cuts. And no exceptions from necessary reforms," he said. But Kinkel said the EU in its present form was not yet ready to cope with a potentially large number of new member states and had to do its homework first. "Today, in the Europe of 15 (member states), we are already at the limit of our capacities. An expansion of up to 27 members without institutional changes would lead to a collapse," he said. Kinkel said the community's institutions, set up in 1957 for the six founding members, would have to be streamlined, the number of commissioners reduced and the role of the European parliament strengthened. He also said the EU had no choice but to complete a thorough reform of its Common Agricultural Policy and agree on other ways of reigning in its ballooning budget. "The burdens have to be distributed a little more evenly," he said. Germany, one of the fiercest proponents of EU enlargement, is by far the largest net contributor to its funds.