Norway will continue to extend power links with European neighbours to back up supplies to its own vulnerable hydro-based system, Energy Minister Jens Stoltenberg said on Wednesday. But the oil-rich nation has no plans to regulate the domestic electricity market despite prices hitting record highs this year due to a lack of rain and snow last winter which left water levels in reservoirs used for hydroelectric production at the lowest levels for 60 years. "A hydropower-based system is always vulnerable because it is always difficult to estimate how much energy you have," Stoltenberg told Reuters in an interview. "We have been able to handle it for 100 years and with improved exchange possibilities with our neighbours, we will continue to manage the problem. It will mean that prices will go up and down, but it's not in our plans to regulate the market." Norway, which exports almost all of its oil production of 3.2 million barrels per day, uses mainly hydropower for domestic demand and is one of the world's largest hydroelectricity producers. "We are also now developing the possibilities of power exchange with our neighbours by building new cables to Germany and the Netherlands. Through those cables we will be able to have a strong increase in the power exchange with continental Europe," Stoltenberg said. Norway is already part of a common electricity grid with Nordic neighbours Denmark and Sweden, where electricity is frequently exchanged in times of short- or oversupply. Norway and Sweden in January 1996 opened a common electricity bourse to trade spot and futures contracts. "The Nordic electricity market is functioning very well. We will sell Norwegian electricity in those years when we have much water and we will import when we have little water," the minister said. But, he added, there was a need to reduce consumption. Growth in Nordic electricity demand was outpacing new sources of supply, a problem that could be exacerbated by Sweden's pledge to shutdown the country's nuclear power production after the turn of the century. "The chances of Sweden closing down all its nuclear plants within 2010 is not so very likely. The question is whether they will start the process of closing down some of them. "At the same time the demand for electricity in all Nordic countries is increasing by about two gas-fired power stations per year. So there is an increasing need for electricity in the Nordic area and that has to come from somewhere," Stoltenberg said.