The following are the main stories from Thursday morning's German newspapers: FRANKFURTER ALLGEMEINE ZEITUNG - Tehran asked Bonn to extradite former Iranian president Abolhassan Banisadr to Iran. - Longer stay and new mandate for Bundeswehr Germany army in Bosnia, according to German Defence Minister Volker Ruehe. Praise and approval from the opposition Social Democrats. - Saxony premier Kurt Biedenkopf thanks the German government for supporting it over payment of subsidies to Volkswagen plants in the east German state. - More medicine issues at a German foundation that tests and compares consumer goods Stiftung Warentest. Automobile tests should be stepped up, the foundation said. - Chancellor Helmut Kohl told the birthday celebration of the Bundesbank president Hans Tietmeyer that there should be no lazy compromises over the Euro single European currency. - Opposition Social Democrats leader Oskar Lafontaine says that Germanyu's ability to compete as an industrial location is a fateful downward spiral. HANDELSBLATT - VW mulls whether to appeal against European Commission decision banning subsidies paid to the firm by state of Saxony. Lw suit would bring Europe's biggest car manufacturer before the European Court of Justice. VW's chief Ferdinand Piech says should first wait for decision of German government. - Chancellor Helmut Kohl told the birthday celebration of the Bundesbank president Hans Tietmeyer that there should be compromises over the Euro single European currency. - Light recovery in engineering sector. - IAM trade fair for private investors. - New debts higher than planned in the federal budget. - Will the Bundeswehr German army extend its mandate in Bosnia? - Chancellor Helmut Kohl agrees to visit Russian President Boris Yeltsin in September - Opposition Social Democrats hold first economic conference in Bonn and debate globalisation. SUEDDEUTSCHE ZEITUNG - Justice Minister Edzard Schmid-Jortzig says that German Bundestag lower house of parliament should appeal to the Federal Constitutional Court against Bavaria's new tough state law on abortion. - Tehran asks Bonn to extradite former Iranian president Abolhassan Banisadr after he linked 1992 assassination of Iranian Kurd dissidents in Berlin to the Iranian leadership. - Chancellor Helmut Kohl agrees to visit Russian President Boris Yeltsin in September by telephone - German Defence Minister Volker Ruehe talks of German troops staying in Bosnia after mandate runs out at the end of the year. - Stiftung Warentest, consumer research group, say lead in drinking water can endanger children's health. DIE WELT - Chancellor Helmut Kohl travels to Moscow to visit Russian President on September 7. - DIW German economic research institute says higher valued added tax is inevitable. - No pleasure without problems. Stiftung Warentest, consumer research group, says lead in drinking water endangers children's health. - Crown witness testifiying against Hans-Olaf Henkel does not back up suspicions against the head of the German BDI industry federation. - 20 percent valued added tax? German DIW economic research institute warns against loss of income for Bonn reforms. -- Bonn Newsroom +49 228 2609760