These are leading stories in this morning's Paris newspapers. LES ECHOS -- Prime Minister Alain Juppe calls on nation to shift into high gear. -- Utility group EDF sells 10 percent stake in Sweden's Sydkraft to Norway's Statkraft for 2.1 billion francs. -- Foreign Minister Herve de Charettes calls on French ambassadors to support small exporters abroad. -- France Telecom monitoring privatisation of Portugal Telecom with view to possible link-up. -- CDC files takeover bid for Credit Foncier de France . -- French marriages down 40 percent in 20 years. LA TRIBUNE DESFOSSES -- Juppe expresses concern over jobs and the economy. -- Significant block of Matra-Thomson shares to go on the market if Lagardere group defence unit Matra succeeds in bid for Thomson SA. -- Minority shareholders contest CDC's offer of 70 francs per share in Credit Foncier takeover bid. -- President Jacques Chirac promises to help cattle breeders but leeway is slim. -- EDF makes 850 million franc profit on Sydkraft stake sale. -- Seita sues Salomon Brothers over $30 million loss made in 1994 on "sophisticated financial products" such as interest rate and currency swaps, claiming the bank did not fully inform the client. L'AGEFI -- Credit Foncier may show 200 to 400 million franc first half profit, casting shadow over takeover at 70 francs per share. -- Speculation set to focus on Rhone Poulenc shares amid rumours the group will split chemicals and pharmaceuticals into seperate units. -- Franc weakness mostly mirrors short-term concerns. LIBERATION -- Juppe rules out devaluation and maintains stand on lower taxes and shorter work week. LIBERATION (Economic section) -- CNAM national health fund chairman Jean Marie Spaeth foresees social security deficit of 50 to 55 billion francs this year. The target for the 1997 deficit is 25 billion. THE INTERNATIONAL HERALD TRIBUNE -- Speculators weaken franc and push up short-term interest rates, betting French deficit will overshoot the three percent ceiling that qualifies for monetary union. -- Paris deports 15 more African immigrants. LE PARISIEN -- France to go off summer time on the night of October 26/27, one month later than usual. -- Chirac and ex-president Valery Giscard d'Estaing had lunch at the Rostang restaurant in Paris because Giscard has refused to set foot in the Elysee presidential Palace since he stepped down from the presidency in 1981. -- Paris Newsroom +33 1 4221 5381