Berlin, long mired in its tortured history, is drawing crowds to watch it emerge as a 21st century capital and a peephole into Europe's urban future. Consecutive feats of engineering and nascent architectural wonders have breathed new life into an anaemic tourism industry that slumped when the euphoria over the collapse of the Berlin Wall subsided. Often called Europe's biggest construction site, Berlin is simultaneously preparing for the end of the century arrival of the government from Bonn, filling the gaps created by the Wall and restoring structures left to rot under communism. The latest in the "what'll they do next?" series of projects is the temporary shifting of the city's Spree River 70 metres (230 feet) northward to make room to lay a 100 metre-wide (328 cluster of rail, subway and auto tunnels. Nudged with 1,500 tons of stone and 1,000 square metres (10,760 square feet) of sandbags, the central waterway has been shifted to its temporary bed until 1998. Packed tour ships and cargo vessels are already cruising the relocated bend. The tunnel will run below the city's giant Tiergarten park, linking the goverment quarter with the main rail station while reunifying the eastern and western sections of the park split by a service road laid after the infamous Wall was built. As a city long dwarfed by the glamour and popularity of its European cousins, Berlin has spent the 1990s cultivating the hope of once again being accepted as a world capital. The scope of the scheme has created enough traffic nightmares, political mudslinging and just plain mud to aggravate the already typically edgy Berliner. But a private group of investors called Partners for Berlin has brightened the mood in the cash-strapped city with a wildly successful plan to attract visitors to their works-in-progress. Guided tours of the building sites, street parties and elaborate art projects amid the scaffolding and cement trucks have drawn visitors from across Europe. Potsdamer Platz, the largest construction site, is illuminated by night this month under Berlin artist Gerhard Merz's electric light sculpture, strung across 11 building cranes. A guarded optimism clings to each project as Berliners discuss each Baustelle (construction site) as if it were a chance to cast off the city's grim past and start anew. "People are eager to know how the city is changing, to inform themselves as the city unfolds around them," said Baerbel Petersen of Partners for Berlin. "This is something Berliners take very, very personally." Schaustelle (Show Site) Berlin tours meet at the Info Box, a red, three-storey steel pod on stilts where Sony, Daimler Benz and other industrial giants have rolled out their plans for the city with balsa wood models and interactive computer screens. The two-month event has drawn an estimated 300,000 visitors this summer, all without a single mark from public coffers. Aside from the impressive Spree move, engineers this year plucked an elegant turn-of-the-century ballroom from its foundations, lowered it onto rails and deposited it on its future site at Sony's European headquarters, now being built. To meet the environmentalist goal of an 80-to-20-percent ratio between public and private transport, several new rail and subway lines are in the works, including a new central station which will serve 110,000 travellers a day. Nearby, British architect Sir Norman Foster is re-fashioning the future seat of parliament, the imposing Reichstag, as an open chamber of light under a glass dome with a preserved Italian Renaissance facade. The site of Checkpoint Charlie, the tightly-guarded Berlin border crossing for citizens of the Allied countries during the Cold War, is transforming into the American Business Center cluster of office buildings and retail spaces. Even the shames of the earlier Berlin landscape, including the Wall itself, are on drafting tables as politicians and a rapt public debate how to preserve the memory of the past on the city's streets while still allowing municipal rebirth. "In a city where so much is being newly built in one shot, people fear losing their city," Barbara Jakubeit, Berlin's new director of construction, told the daily Tagespiegel. "There is a call to keep elements of the city's past." Of course, this is not the first generation with visions of Berlin as a European beacon. The spectre of Hitler and Bismarck loom large as the city faces the millennium. But while Hitler and his architect Albert Speer dreamt of a stratospheric scale for the buildings of Germania, Berlin's newest constructions remain generally modest and in human proportion. Few structures are larger than four storeys high. The budding centre of high style in east Berlin, Friedrichstrasse, is a narrow shopping avenue beneath gleaming glass and steel department stores, in sharp contrast with the city's many broad boulevards custom-made for military parades. Each new building and every restored edifice seems to represent a healing of the post-war divisions and a new opportunity to define the future of the once-cleaved city as the seat of German government and of European economic power. "I always had a problem with Bonn as the capital," said Berlin architect Olaf Kunkat. "It always represented our post-war situation. We weren't allowed to grow or expand. "Now we are old enough and strong enough to recreate this city as a world democratic capital and to show the world that we can control ourselves. Part of that is the opportunity to be the future of architecture, the absolute state of the art."