The United States on Wednesday accused Iran's Revolutionary Guards of collecting protection fees from ships carrying contraband Iraqi oil through Iranian waters in violation of U.N. sanctions. Two State Department officials spoke to the U.N. Security Council's sanctions committee to back up their June 17 complaint that Iran was allowing the ships to transit its waters and thereby evade an international inspection force enforcing the embargoes against Baghdad. "It is still going on and in an increased way," said German Ambassador Tono Eitel, chairman of the committee, in reference to the U.S. data, which included numbers of ships and interviews with those involved in the smuggling. The committee took no immediate action and asked the United States to submit the data in writing. A U.S. official briefing reporters said that Iran's Revolutionary Guards were collecting a fee for allowing ships to transit through Iranian waters in order to realise a greater profit from the oil than Iraq did. Diplomatic sources said the ultimate destination of the Iraqi gasoil were locations in Dubai, Pakistan and India. Iraq has been under stringent U.N. trade sanctions since its troops invaded Kuwait in August 1990. The U.S. official said there was "photographic evidence at oil loading facilities in Iraq, details of interdictions by the force and the results of discussions or interviews with the captains and masters of those vessels in which a number of them admit they loaded oil in Iraq but purchased documentation from Iranian officials." He said the Iraqis "in their desperation to sell oil" were dumping the gasoil as low as $15 a metric ton for ships willing to come into Iraq and load. The Iranians, he said, often extracted as much as $55 per metric ton in protection fees. "It leaves still, if the world price fluctuates between $180 and $200 per metric ton, a pretty substantial profit for a ship's captain who is willing to undertake this kind of voyage." The official said there was a pattern of Iraqi attempts at shipping oil out in large tankers in 1992-1994, but the work of the multinational naval task force stifled that activity. However, starting late in 1995, the officials said, Iraq resorted to shipping oil products out on tugs with barges and other small ships, trying to avoid notice of the task force. The small ships were more difficult to detect. No number was given for the ships involved or the amount of oil smuggled.