A U.N. Security Council committee on Wednesday put off Turkey's request to buy Iraqi oil until the impact of a limited oil sales deal with Iraq could be evaluated. German Ambasador Tono Eitel, chairman of the Security Council's Iraqi sanctions committee, said members decided to postpone action on Turkey's application until the limited oil sales deal or oil-for-food plan was implemented. This arrangement, yet to go into force, allows Iraq to sell $2 billion worth of oil over six months in order to buy needed food, medicine and other goods for its people suffering under sanctions since Baghdad's troops invaded Kuwait in August 1990. Turkey will get pipeline fees. Turkey had asked the committee to purchase oil from Baghdad in exchange for supplying Iraq with humanitarian goods. Ankara said the U.N. trade sanctions had cost its economy more than $27 billion since 1990 and that Turkey should get some relief, as allowed by the U.N. Charter. Eitel denied the council's action was a polite way of turning down Turkey's request. He said there was much sympathy for Turkey's plight but "we want to see how (the oil-for-food plan) works when it is implemented and see what impact it has on the Turkish economy." But the action was expected, despite Turkey's contention it had U.S. support. Several diplomats believe the request is now postponed indefinitely. In a separate statement, the United States said "the continuation of the (Iraqi) sanctions regime is in the vital interest of the international community, including Turkey." "U.N. Security Council resolution 986 provides additional economic opportunities for Turkey," it added in reference to the resolution that set up the oil-for-food deal. But the statement, from the U.S. mission to the United Nations, said Washington "remains committed to look for ways to address Turkey's needs within the framework of the sanctions regime." It noted that the oil-for-food deal stipulates that most of Iraq's crude exports have to be transported through the pipeline to Turkey and that many humanitarian supplies would probably be bought from Turkey. The Security Council has rarely made an exception to neighboring countries suffering from the impact of sanctions. In the case of Iraq, however, the committee turned a blind eye to Jordan which has imported Iraqi oil. But members have said Jordan had particular difficulties after the Gulf War because it was totally dependent on Iraqi oil and could obtain none from its neighbors because of its opposition to the war. Turkey had been confident the United States and its allies would agree to the sanctions relief in exchange for allowing the United States, Britain and France to use its bases in northern Iraq. The allies after the Gulf War instituted a no-fly zone to protect Kurds against any attack from Baghdad.