Lech Walesa emerged from Poland's political shadows on Thursday to back the Solidarity union's campaign in parliamentary polls next year, but made clear he would not stand for election himself. "I am putting myself at its disposal, with my contacts in this country and abroad...but not for my own benefit," Walesa told an opposition rally in the northern port city Szczecin. "I will be neither a lower house deputy nor a senator." Walesa led the creation of Solidarity as the Soviet bloc's first free trade union 16 years ago, but after steering it to victory over communism in 1989 he quit to become Poland's first democratically-elected president. Since his narrow defeat by ex-communist Aleksander Kwasniewski in November presidential polls, Walesa has kept a low profile -- telling the deeply splintered centre-right opposition parties to form a credible alliance by themselves. At the rally commemorating Solidarity's August 1980 birth, Walesa returned to the fray against the ruling coalition of the ex-communist Democratic Left Alliance (SLD) and the smaller Polish Peasant Party (PSL), in power since 1993. He threw his weight behind the Solidarity Election Action (AWS), an alliance of the union and dozens of small parties which opinion polls indicate stands the best chance of winning elections due in September 1997. "I greet sincerely and with hope the formation of AWS," he told the rally, before laying flowers at a monument to workers shot by communist forces during protests in 1970. Although Solidarity's patriarch is not a formal leader of the union, with which he has quarrelled in the past, he issued strong advice on how it should proceed, insisting that trade unionists should be in parliament but not in government. Walesa said policies should be formulated by political parties and urged the union to mend fences with the liberal centrist Union for Freedom (UW), led by many of Solidarity's pre-1989 intellectual advisors. Solidarity, with populist economic policies and patriotic pro-Roman Catholic Church traditions, is suspicious of the UW's strongly free-market principles and has so far concluded only a non-aggression pact with the party, not an alliance. Walesa has open contempt for the radical new rightist Movement for the Reconstruction of Poland (ROP). "The UW is the strongest party with the greatest intellectual potential. Whether we have complaints about it or not, it should be in Solidarity Election Action," he said. Walesa offered his own team of advisers, the Lech Walesa Institute, to draft a legislative programme for the new AWS. This would include more sweeping privatisation than the current government programme, providing the wealth for a new social insurance scheme, a reform of the health service and a measure restricting government interference in the economy. Other reforms he listed concerned local government, the civil service, tax, agriculture, public order and education. Walesa won almost 50 percent of the votes in November but studies showed a section of voters actively disapproved of him -- prompting rivals to say he should avoid direct campaigning. An August opinion poll by the private PBS centre suggested the ruling SLD was backed by 28 percent of voters and the Solidarity alliance 23 percent, while ROP, the UW and the Peasants had 12 percent each.