Romania's Central Bank has eased stringent hard currency controls to restore credibility with investors but a flood of poor economic data will undermine attempts to rebuild confidence, analysts said on Thurdsay. Central Bank governor Mugur Isarescu said on Wednesday most state companies and oil firms would now be freed from the controls imposed to build up a fund to pay for fuel and gas. The exchange controls imposed earlier this month were bitterly criticised at home and abroad as confiscatory. Analysts labelled them a political attempt to prevent a repeat of last year's currency crisis, which hit energy imports and roused public outrage, ahead of November polls. "The hard currency fund will be set up solely based on market rules," said Isarescu. Only companies exporting products subsidised by the state would now contribute to the fund. "We are retaining the full retention system," he added. The easing appeared to be a response to Western alarm ahead of a drive to raise loans on the international market, needed to build Central Bank reserves. Romania only returned to private capital markets last year after a decade's absence. But with inflation pushing up, a plunge in exports, rising fiscal pressure and an artificially firm exchange rate, the flip-flop on exchange controls will do little to sweeten Romania's image for investors. "The mistakes they (the government) have made show that they are pretty scared," said a local banker. "The fund was not achieving much in reality and was doing a lot of harm to credibility," added a Western analyst. "We still have to see if the Central Bank can limit the damage done." Romania is awaiting the results of a $175 million syndicated loan arranged by U.S. Citibank and Dutch ABN Amro, due to close on September 16, and would be badly affected if the market scorned the deal. Investors say the root of Romania's problems lies in a move in March to dampen inflation by keeping the domestic leu currency high through restrictions on the local forex market. The International Monetary Fund responded by withholding loan tranches and economic woes have mounted ever since. July saw a 7.5 percent price upswing that quickened year-on year inflation to 40.3 percent, a 16.1 percent drop in exports and higher wages. Hard currency squeezes triggered lower imports, which pinched industrial output, down 6.7 percent last month. A wage and pension indexation pushed up the budget deficit, triggering its revision to bring it into line with higher inflation and costs. Data on the new budget is unavailable. The hard currency fund further damaged export efforts already hit by the artificially high rate of the leu. Oil companies in particular were finding it impossible to fund their imports ahead of Romania's harsh winter. It was not clear how the relaxation of the measures would affect companies attempts to find hard currency to fund imports. Economists say little will improve until the leu is allowed to float freely. The leu has inched down since the March restrictions, hitting 3,155/65 to the dollar on the interbank market, while more realistic retail prices hover near 3,550.