Polish Prime Minister Wlodzimierz Cimoszewicz said on Thursday the ruling left-wing coalition's two parties are near agreement on a cabinet reshuffle linked to a coming reorganisation of ministries. Till now the reform, scrapping several ministries, creating new ones and merging others to streamline decision-making, has divided the parties which have shared power since 1993 despite repeated conflicts. The hottest argument concerns appointments to the powerful new treasury and economy ministries as well as the finance portfolio, whose role, though diminished, will remain crucial. Cimoszewicz said his party, the ex-communist Democratic Left Alliance (SLD), and the smaller Polish Peasant Party (PSL) neared a deal, on a lineup of ministers after the reform, during a late-night meeting on Wednesday. "It is my deep conviction that both sides have come closer to an agreement, with their positions almost identical," Cimoszewicz told private Radio Zet. "However, the results of the negotiations have yet to be accepted by the presidiums of the parties," he said. Senior Peasant party official Franciszek Stefaniuk confirmed the assessment, saying. "Our positions have indeed converged." The Peasant party fears that the stronger ex-communists may use the reshuffle to gain more power within the cabinet, now roughly divided in half between the two sides. Trade-offs inside the coalition could lead to the dismissal of Finance Minister Grzegorz Kolodko. Kolodko, a non-party technocrat linked to the ex-communists and the author of the government's economic policy, has won praise from international financial institutions for maintaining economic stablity and growth. The Peasant Party wants implementation of the reform to involve the dismissal of the entire current cabinet and appointment of a new one, although influential Agriculture Minister Roman Jagielinski has argued against this approach. But Cimoszewicz insisted on a gradual replacement of ministers from October, when the months-long process of creating new ministries is due to begin.