Serbia's "authentic" private sector generates more than a third of the country's gross domestic product (GDP), a government official said on Thursday. Economists distinguish the "authentic private sector" from state enterprises that were privatised in a five-year program of so-called ownership transformation. According to statistics issued at the end of June, Serbia has 175,000 companies registered as private, with 72,000 of them actively working. "Those private companies have generated about 35 percent of Serbia's GDP," Radoje Djukic, minister for private enterprise in the Serbian government told Reuters. "But the private sector share in the GDP rises to 56 percent if the so-called "private entrepreneurial units" such as small retailers and workshops which number 210,000 are included," the minister said. According to Djukic, the private sector participation in the government's tax revenues confirm those figures. "At the end of May, Serbia's private sector employed 536,000 people, 25 percent of the total number of employed workers," he said. "But in reality, when you include members of the family, the number rises to one million." According to official statistics, the number of private sector employees at the end of May stood at 283,000. "This is officially (the) reported number of workers, for whom social and health insurance is paid," said Slobodan Milosavljevic of the IZIT Institute for Market Research. But he questioned the official estimates, insisting the first independent study into the grey economy indicated the government's the figures were impossibly optimistic. "We would be happy if the share of private sector in the gross domestic product was really so high," Milosavljevic said. "But if the grey economy takes 35-40 percent of the GDP and private sector another 56 percent, the share of state economy turns out to be impossibly low. And we know that the industry and mining sector generate a considerable part of the GDP," Milosavljevic said. Preliminary GDP data for 1995 released by the Yugoslav statistics office show the social sector generated 37.53 percent of the GDP and the private sector 37.61 percent. -- Gordana Filipovic, Belgrade newsroom, +381 11 222 4254