President Ion Iliescu, in power since the 1989 fall of communism, on Wednesday launched his bid to lead Romania into the next century, promising prosperity and stability if elected in November polls. Iliescu, 66, told an audience of ruling party figures, celebrities and businessmen in a speech to launch his candidacy that the most painful moments of change were over for the still- poor Balkan country. "Romania has left behind it the economic and social chaos of the first years of reform and is now in a fresh moment of change," said the former communist functionary who ousted Stalinist dictator Nicolae Ceausescu in a bloody revolt. In a speech short on inspired rhetoric and specific pledges he defended his record for fostering steady economic development, blasted Romania's newly rich for conspicuous consumption and promised an attack on corruption. "The key point of my platform is to modernise the national economy in line with changes in contemporary society," he said. While opinion polls cast him as favourite to retain power, the obstacles in his way were symbolised by a heckler who interrupted the opening moments of his speech to complain that Iliescu was seeking a third term in office. The Romanian constitution limits Presidents to two four-year terms. Although Iliescu was elected both in 1990 and 1992 he argues the new constitution, introduced in 1991, applies only to his second ballot victory. The opposition argues that Iliescu is trying to cling to power at all costs, and will contest his candidacy in the courts. It promises quicker reform and says the President has blocked the changes need to rescue Romania from the economic doldrums. Opposition leaders say Iliescu is a late and reluctant convert to capitalism, moving awkwardly from communist rhetoric only at the behest of Western governments who have threatened to shun Romania. Iliescu's speech committed him to fresh efforts to reform and privatise Romania's still largely state-run economy. "We want to build a healthy market economy...not one of black-marketeers and unscrupulous dealers," said Iliescu. "Unfortunately many who accumulated capital have preferred to squander it on luxury, ostentatiously displaying their personal wealth rather than reinvesting into production and creating new jobs," he told his audience. Iliescu made little mention of his ruling Party of Social Democracy (PDSR), in what analysts said was a conscious move to appeal for cross-party support and avoid association with the PDSR, which has been tarnished by corruption scandals. For the same reason his campaign will be run by a high-profile team of career diplomats, not party managers, who have already sought to portray Iliescu as a statesman and national father figure ahead of the November 3 vote. Iliescu's main rivals are Emil Constantinescu, an academic standing for the opposition Democratic Convention bloc, and Romania's first post-communist premier, Petre Roman. Electioneering for the third post-communist presidential and parliamentary polls officially starts on September 4.  REUTER