Here are highlights of stories reported by Hungary's press, based on information by Nepszabadsag's Hungary Around the Clock service. For further details on how to subscribe to Hungary Around the Clock, please contact Monica Kovacs at (361) 351 2440 or fax your request to (361) 351 7141. ALL PAPERS - Speaker of Parliament Zoltan Gal confirmed Wednesday that a special session of Parliament will be held next Tuesday to debate issues relating to the Hungarian-Romanian basic treaty. @ - The parliamentary group of the Socialist Party proposes that Parliament should ease the burdens imposed on low and mid-level incomes next year. -Three opposition parties, the Democratic Forum, Christian Democrats and Young Democrats, signed a declaration on Wednesday pledging to strengthen and expand joint opposition action in Parliament. - Bela Marko, president of the Democratic Federation of Hungarians in Romania said that his party is to arrange another Hungarian summit in Hungary on September 4. @ - A Ministry of Industry and Trade official said the Ministry anticipates a 10-11 per cent rise in investments in coming years. - Hungary has largely conformed with the expectations of the European Union in the sphere of legal harmonisation of environmental protection but certain concrete tasks remain to be accomplished, said the minister of environmental protection. - The yields of both one-month and three-month treasury bills decreased further at this week's auctions. @ -Inter-Continental Corp. has won the tender to buy 95 per cent of Forum Hotel. Together with the price of the remaining 14 hotels of what was formerly the HungarHotels chain, the State Privatisation and Holding Co. will take in $101.8 million in all. VILAGGAZDASAG - The cabinet is expected today to debate topics related to the financing of the health sector by social insurance, as well as new bills on securities, credit institutions, financial enterprises and state supervision of money and capital markets. @ - Six investors will be invited to tender for the privatisation of the Hungarian Credit Bank. - The price of compensation coupons hit a one-year high of HUF 431 yesterday on the Budapest Stock Exchange. MAGYAR HIRLAP - The coalition consultative council, grouping senior officials from the two governing coalition parties, will meet today. @ - Private individuals and enterprises will have the opportunity to purchase surplus equipment offered for sale by IFOR troops stationed in Hungary through tender from next month. - The European Society of Medical and Health Sociology opens a conference in Budapest today. MAGYAR NEMZET - The board of directors of the International Monetary Fund approved Wednesday the first programme report on the state of the Hungarian economy. @ - The bank and credit consolidation of the past five years cost the country more than HUF 350 billion, the State Audit Office concludes in a report adding the sum is the result of a series of errors and irregularities. NAPI GAZDASAG - A considerable increase in Hungarian energy prices is inevitable and delays only result in a halt in investments by foreign owners in the energy sector, commented Rudolf Gruber, CEO of the Austrian firm EVN, which has a stake in Kogaz. - Budapest newsroom +36 1 266 2410