At least 13 people were killed in the biggest rebel assaults in Mexico in more than two years when scores of masked guerrillas attacked police and military posts in two southern states, officials and witnesses said on Thursday. The attacks, which appeared to be closely coordinated, were in six towns in Guerrero and Oaxaca states. They marked the most serious fighting since the Zapatista rebellion erupted in the southeastern state of Chiapas in January 1994. This time, witnesses said, the attacks were launched by a well-armed new rebel force calling itself the Popular Revolutionary Army (EPR) that emerged two months ago. The Zapatistas, who are in peace talks with the government, have said they have nothing to do with the EPR. Mexican financial markets, already hit by a drop in U.S. stock prices, fell on the news. The main stock market index shed 68 points, or two percent. By early afternoon the peso weakened by almost four centavos to 7.534 against the dollar. The Mexican peso collapsed in December 1994, losing half its value, when mounting lack of confidence in the government's ability to pay its debts combined with Zapatista rebel movements to spark a major exodus of funds from Mexico. There was little comment on the attacks from the government of President Ernesto Zedillo, who is due to give his second State of the Nation address on Sunday. Asked if the government was worried about the attacks, Deputy Interior Minister Arturo Nunez told government news agency Notimex: "Of course. We are working on it." The Oaxaca state government said 11 people, including sailors, police, rebels and two civilians, died in two lengthy gunfights, one near the Pacific tourist resort of Huatulco and another in the mountain town of Tlaxiaco. Oaxaca government spokesman Roberto Santiago told Reuters the rebels had also taken hostage a policeman from Tlaxiaco and a sailor from Huatulco's naval base. Gov. Diodoro Carrasco appealed for calm but also urged the population to be on the lookout for "possible new attacks". "At around 10 p.m., in the town of Tlaxiaco ... a group of approximately 50 heavily armed people, dressed as civilians but wearing dark clothing, their faces covered with handkerchiefs, suddenly burst into the centre of town and began an attack against the police," Oaxaca's government said. At least two policemen died in the town, a radio control base with a small airport. In neighbouring Guerrero, officials said two policeman were gunned down in one attack and five soldiers were wounded in another on an army barracks. Officials said the attacks appeared to be coordinated and the guerrillas numbered at least 130. In Huatulco, around 80 gunmen attacked police posts and a naval base, killing three sailors, two policemen and two civilians, one of whom was hit by machine-gun fire as he drove by, the Oaxaca statement said. Two rebels in olive-green uniforms were killed when police sought to repel the assault. Radio station Radio Red said three people had been arrested in Guerrero in connection with the attacks. There was no official confirmation of the report. The two state governments said there were a total of 21 wounded. None appeared to be rebels. An unidentified witness from Tlaxiaco, speaking live on Radio Red, said the rebels arrived in trucks and painted pro-EPR slogans on roads and buildings. Then the shooting started in the main square, sending locals fleeing for cover. Municipal buildings were riddled with bullet holes in the town of Tixtla, Guerrero, about 10 miles (16 km) east of the state capital, Chilpancingo. Officials in the states of Guanajuato, Mexico and Tabasco denied a newspaper report that the EPR had also clashed with security forces in their states.