Brazilian domestic soybean prices should continue their current climb until the country's senators complete voting on the proposed abolition of the ICMS sales tax, brokers and analysts said. Average domestic prices rose to $15.16 a 60-kg bag this week, nearly $1 up on a week ago and $2 above July  prices. "The ICMS issue is slowing down the trade - it's tied the trade up alot," a Rio Grande do Sul broker said. "People don't like to do business with a clause in it, so they're holding back from sales, and prices should continue going up," he said.   In most Brazilian states the tax is currently charged on exports and interstate sales of semifinished products at a rate of 13 percent for soybeans, 11.1 percent for soymeal and 8.8 percent for soyoil. It is widely expected to be abolished following a vote due to take place in the Brazilian senate on September 9. The wait for a final decision on the tax is seen as a contributory factor to the current rise in domestic soybean prices, which is also being aggravated by market tightness.   Abolition of the tax could lead to the renegotiation of advance or so-called "green soybean" sales from the 1996/97 crop already contracted by some Brazilian producers with domestic and export market buyers. It is estimated up to $500 million worth of green soybeans have already been sold. Elimination of the tax should be generally favorable for producers, whose costs should become more competitive. Brazil's national soybean price, a composite average, was put at $15.16 per 60-kg bag on Aug 29, up from $14.45 a week previously and $13.27 on July 29.   At Ponta Grossa in major producing state Parana state, soybean prices were quoted at up to 17.10 reais ($16.93) per 60-kg bag on Aug 29. Trade sources estimated 80-85 percent of the soybeans from Brazil's 1995/96 harvest have now been sold, and the rest is likely to remain firmly where it is for the time being in the hands of middlemen. "There's not a lot left in the market and people are unwilling to sell," the broker said. "They'll now be able to get even better prices if they wait until next February," he said.   Paul Marie Oorts, an analyst with Rio Grande do Sul state cooperatives federation Fecotrigo, said he doubted any of the soybeans left for sale are still in the hands of producers. "Generally producers do not manage to take advantage of this kind of situation because they don't wish to store grain," he said. Trade sources said pig and chicken farmers are also competing with other buyers on the domestic market for soymeal, which is understood to be in short supply. Brokers counted lack of available soymeal in Brazil and the rush to sell contracts on Chicago before the end of the month as reasons supporting this week's $2 gain in Chicago September soymeal prices over December positions. -- Rio de Janeiro newsroom, 5521 5074151