Cuba, commenting on a rare simultaneous U.S. television interview involving a senior Cuban official and a right-wing Cuban exile leader, denied on Thursday this was the start of dialogue between the two sides. "Cuba has not had a dialogue, and will never have a dialogue, with hysterical mafia types and annexationists," Cuban Foreign Minister Roberto Robaina said in Havana. He said he was reacting to recent media reports from Miami, the home of a large anti-communist Cuban exile community. These reports described the interview recorded last Friday by the U.S-based Spanish language CBS Telenoticias network as an unprecedented debate between a Cuban government figure and a prominent exile opponent. The interview linked up simultaneously Ricardo Alarcon, president of Cuba's National Assembly and a member of the ruling Communist Party Politburo, who spoke from Havana, and Jorge Mas Canosa, President of the fiercely anti-communist Cuban American National Foundation, speaking from Miami. CBS was due to screen the interview, which included questions from a panel of journalists, on Sept. 5. Robaina told the Cuban news agency Prensa Latina that efforts by the exile community to portray the interview as the start of a dialogue between the government and right-wing exile opponents were a deliberate attempt to sow confusion. Nevertheless, it was not entirely clear why Alarcon, one of the best known figures in the Cuban government and Havana's intermediary of choice in contacts with the U.S. government, should have agreed to go ahead with the programme. This appeared to break with a Cuban policy of having absolutely no contact with the hardline sector of the U.S.-based Cuban exile community, which is seeking the overthrow of Cuban President Fidel Castro's communist rule. Cuban political commentators and state media regularly demonise Mas Canosa as the island's No. 1 public enemy. But Havana has initiated a dialogue with moderate members of the exile community, who generally argue that any transition in Cuba must include the existing Cuban government. Pressed about the Alarcon-Mas Canosa interview at a weekly news briefing on Thursday, Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Marianela Ferriol said: "It means absolutely nothing. There is no dialogue, there is no debate, there is no recognition (by the Cuban government of Mas Canosa)". Asked to explain why the interview had gone ahead, she replied: "Maybe we're talking about a confrontation of ideas, we've never backed away from that". Alarcon, through his position as Cuba's chief negotiator with U.S. authorities, has carved out a major role in foreign relations that rivals Robaina's. He has offered no public explanation of the CBS interview or under what terms or authority it was conducted.