The Brazilian miner Paranapanema S.A.  PAM.SA hopes to invest around $100 million in Peru over the next five years by forming joint ventures with local producers and buying assets on the country's privatization slate, according to company officials. "In October we have to finalize joint ventures with two zinc miners whose production will mean an increase in our capacity," company spokesman Antonio Marques said in an interview in Lima, without naming the local miners.   In attempting to enter Peru, Paranapanema was also negotiating with a Peruvian copper producer about a joint venture project, he added. "In the case of Peru, we hope we can meet 20 percent of our needs in both zinc and copper," Marques said. The Brazilian polymetallic miner currently produces 200,000 tonnes of copper cathodes a year, but has enough demand to triple this output, Marques said. The company also produces 70,000 tonnes of zinc and 18,000 tin a year, he said.   As well as the joint ventures, Paranapanema has a keen eye on assets slated for auction by Peru's state-run mining giant Centromin that is in the midst of a successful privatization, he added. The miner is especially interested in the September 13 sale of Centromin's polymetal mine Yauricocha, which is being auctioned with a minimum bid price of $10 million, Marques said. Centromin's assets, however, do not come cheap.   Last month, the state miner launched its piecemeal privatization when a Canadian consortium of Rio Algom Ltd and Inmet Mining Corp agreed to invest $2.52 billion over the next five years to become owner of the copper- rich Antamina prospect. Then Canada's Barrick Gold Corporation won the option to buy Peru's Quicay gold prospect by offering to pay $202 million should the company decide to develop the asset after feasibility studies.   Paranapanema's investment plans in Peru are part of its general strategy to increase production in response to a capacity well below demand, Marques said. In its bid to improve capacity, the company was also looking for production projects in Argentina and Bolivia and did not rule out further joint ventures in Peru, the company spokesman said. Paranapanema imports annually from Peru - the world's sixth largest copper producer -  around $60 million worth of red metal concentrates. The company also buys $35 million of zinc concentrates from Peru - the world's fourth largest zinc producer. Meanwhile the company exports annually to Peru $3 million worth of copper tubing, made by its Brazilian subsidiary Eluma S.A., Marques said. -- Lima newsroom, 511 221-2134