For the second time this month, the powerful National Coffee Growers Committee has urged a devaluation of Colombia's peso currency to help breathe new life into its ailing coffee industry. The latest call came in a letter to President Ernesto Samper in which the Committee warned that a strong peso could ultimately lead to the "eradication" of coffee as a staple crop in Colombia. In the letter, made public late Tuesday, the committee said the peso's steady rise against the dollar between 1991 and 1995 had cost Colombia the equivalent of more than $1.9 billion in export revenues -- the value of a whole year's coffee harvest. If current trends continue, it added that an additional $780 million would be lost in 1996, bringing the six-year total to $2.6 billion. The peso, buoyed by rising oil exports and foreign credits bringing more dollars into the country, has strengthened considerably since early June when it was trading at more than 1,074 to the dollar. It has edged down slightly since Aug. 12, when it closed at a six-month high on the country's interbank market of 1,030.20. But there are widespread fears about a continuing appreciation. And the trend toward a stronger currency, which makes Colombian goods more expensive abroad, has prompted growing demands for a devaluation. Jorge Ramirez Ocampo, president of the National Exporters Association, told reporters this week that all members of the association were affected by peso strength and the loss of copmpetitiveness abroad. "You can't be very optimistic about exports," he said grimly, adding that the watchword among exporters nationwide was cost- cutting. The coffee industry is undoubtedly among the hardest hit by foreign exchange woes, since its imports are dwarfed by those of other exporters like the manufacturing sector. Cheap dollars may help cut the cost of Madison Avenue publicity campaigns featuring the National Coffee Growers Federation and the likes of Juan Valdez. But with production costs rising in direct proportion with inflation -- which is expected reach about 21 percent this year -- the National Growers Committee said in its letter that coffee-growing may no longer be viable "because of the lack of profitability." Samper himself urged a devaluation earlier this month to help make Colombian exports more attractive to the global market. But the central bank likes a firm peso as a shield against inflation and has indicated that it has no intention of taking any artificial steps to drive the currency lower. The bank, which is fiercely independent, spent more than $300 million from its foreign reserves to prop up the peso earlier this year, when it came under pressure because of Colombia's political crisis. "We're victims of a problem that appears to have no solution," the Growers Committee said in its letter. "While the authorities carry on debating who should be responsible for finding one, the problem is getting worse." The letter made no specific mention of recent calls for the establishment of a preferential exchange rate for the coffee sector. But barring a devaluation, it said the government should move quickly to establish "compensatory financial support" to help avoid what it termed "the wicked and dangerous eradication of our coffee industry." With no end to the foreign exchange problem in sight, trading sources say the high premiums Colombian excelso beans continue to fetch in New York are unlikely to come down anytime soon. The premiums are set by the Growers Committee as part of an export formula aimed at compensating for high production costs and taxes paid by private exporters. Traders say they have made Colombian coffee increasingly less popular with roasters abroad, but one described them this week as "a necessary evil" as long as the peso keeps putting squeeze on coffee revenues. -- Bogota newsroom, (571) 610 7544