Kiwi International Airlines chief executive Ewan Wilson said on Friday more than a third of the company's 250 staff will be made redundant in restructuring moves. Wilson told a media conference in Christchurch that 90 staff have been told they will be laid off. In the worst-affected area, Christchurch, 36 out of 47 jobs will be axed in October. Wilson said going into Christchurch was always a calculated risk as it was a very competitive market.   Wilson, with tears in his eyes, said the airline had been hurt very badly by events such as the grounding of flights due to the volcanic ash cloud from Mt Ruapehu volcano, an air traffic controllers' curfew, fog and mechanical breakdowns. "We caught the bleeding quickly enough," he said. The airline will return to its original formula of concentrating on the provincial gateways of Hamilton and Dunedin. It will no longer fly out of Auckland and will scale down its Christchurch operation significantly. "We are going to go back to the recipe we know is successful," Wilson said.   "As part of a drive to greater efficiency, Kiwi International Airlines is returning one of the two aircraft it currently leases," he said. The Boeing 737-300 at present operating from Christchurch will return to its owners, Aviareps, on October 6. From October 6 Kiwi will operate a new reduced flight schedule, with Christchurch services most affected. The overall schedule will go to 14 flights a week from the present 30 flights.  Kiwi will continue to have offices in Brisbane, Sydney and Perth, as well as Hamilton, Christchurch and Dunedin. It will no longer fly to Perth, but will book passengers on Qantas after flying them to Melbourne. Wilson said the competition from Air New Zealand Ltd, Freedom Air and Qantas had been more severe than Kiwi anticipated. "We expected them to fight back...but not with the level of intensity that they have. "The reality is we have lost this particular battle but we haven't lost the war," he said. -- Wellington Newsroom (64 4) 4734746