Philippine peace negotiators reached agreement late on Thursday on an accord to end a 24-year Moslem separatist rebellion in the south of the country that has cost at least 125,000 lives. "Agreement has been reached on all issues," Ruben Torres, executive secretary to Philippine President Fidel Ramos, told Reuters shortly before midnight. "We are ready for the initialling tomorrow of the final draft and the signing in Manila on Monday," he said. Negotiators from the Philippine government and the Moslem Moro National Liberation Front (MNLF) wound up a final two days of talks in a central Jakarta hotel. Under the agreement, a Southern Philippine Council for Peace and Development will be set up for an interim three year period, to be followed in 1999 by a plebiscite and the establisment of an autonomous region covering 14 provinces on Mindanao in the southern Philippines. The agreement is to be initialled on Friday morning in front of Indonesian President Suharto, and formally signed in Manila on Monday. Indonesia has chaired a six-nation ministerial committee of the Organisation of the Islamic Conference (OIC) which has facilitated discussions and mediated between the two parties over the past three years. Torres admitted the final round of discussions on Thursday had at times been heated. But he added: "Better heated here than on the battlefield." In an opening ceremony of the fourth and final round of peace negotiations, government delegation chief Manuel Yan said Thursday was "the final day of our long journey towards peace". "By the end of this day...an historic document shall have emerged from our hearts and minds," Yan said. MNLF Chairman Nur Misuari said the country was "on the threshold of...a just, comprehensive, honourable and lasting peace". But Indonesian Foreign Minister Ali Alatas issued a note of caution: "A common lesson of contemporary peace processes is that it is one thing to achieve a peace settlement; it is quite another thing to make it work. "It is after the Final Peace Agreement has been signed in Manila that the real hard work will begin." Misuari conceded there was still opposition from both Moslem and Christian groups in southern Mindanao province to the peace accord. He said he would seek to persuade dissident groups, including the breakaway Moro Islamic Liberation Front and the fundamentalist Abu Siyyaf group, to accept peace. "The peace deal that we are making now is peace for our whole people...one intended not only for the living, but for those who are still in the womb of time," he said, adding it should embrace all those "ostensibly opposed to our peace-making activities". "I believe that what we could not achieve through war, we could now achieve through peaceful means," he added.