A proposal by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) to replace the monthly balance of payments figures with monthly trade data and a quarterly balance of payments report has won widespread support among economists. The monthly balance of payments' data are among the most keenly watched figures in Australian financial markets but economists have long been concerned about their reliability. Australia routinely runs up monthly deficits on its current account -- which measures not only trade in goods and services but also capital flows -- of between A$1 billion (US$790 million) and A$2 billion. Last year's total deficit was over A$20 billion. "We would give it a 'yes' vote," Citibank Australia senior economist Stephen Koukoulas said of the proposal to scrap the monthly publication of the balance of payments data. However, opposition politicians have come out against the proposal, saying it would mean the government would be able to avoid the monthly grilling it gets over the figures. "...I see this as nothing more than an exercise in avoiding the monthly debate which takes place about the current account deficit ...", opposition Treasury spokesman Gareth Evans said. The main concern about the figures, which regularly send shivers through bond and foreign exchange markets, is that they are based on incomplete data, particularly the net income deficit, and are subject to big revisions. The net income deficit basically measures the cost of funding Australia's external liabilities such as debt payments and dividends paid to overseas shareholders. The cost cutting proposal by the ABS would see the "hard" merchandise trade data reported each month, followed by a balance of payments report when the ABS completed its quarterly survey of foreign investment. "From our point of view, it's a good idea, because the net income balance, month to month, is just a projection by the ABS," SBC Warburg senior economist Guy Bruten said. "It's not a survey, it's not a hard number, and it's so subject to revision," he said. For example the monthly preliminary deficits for July, August and September will not be finalised until late November with the release of the September quarter ABS survey. "So really, the big bulk of the current account deficit, we don't have terribly much by way of reliable information on it on a month by month basis," Commonwealth Bank chief economist Bruce Freeland said. "In that sense the market is just getting some data, and reacting off data, which to some extent may not be completely reliable, or as reliable as the ABS and economists would like to see," Freeland said. Presently, the ABS releases monthly imports data ahead of the current account deficit because the imports data is available earlier than the other components, including the exports data. As a result, it was uncertain as to whether there would be a single trade report, or separate imports and exports releases, if the proposals were adopted, an ABS spokeswoman said. While economists approved of the proposal, they could see that not everyone would embrace the idea of scaling back the monthly current account report, one of the major monthly events in the local financial market. "From an economists' point of view I think it's a very good idea," SBC's Bruten said. "If you're an options trader you might have a different view because you'd have a bit of a drop in volatility."