Malaysia will amend laws governing its Labuan island financial centre to make the offshore banking zone more attractive to foreign fund managers, Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad said on Thursday. He also said new laws being drafted would allow Malaysians to own offshore companies as well as help Labuan's International Offshore Financial Centre (IOFC) offer a wider range of financial services. Mahathir was speaking at the inauguration of the Labuan Financial Park, a 360 million ringgit ($145 million) commercial complex that houses 50 banks, several insurance and other financial services companies. He said further measures were being adopted to establish Labuan as a premier IOFC. "For instance, the Offshore Companies Act 1990 will be amended to allow Malaysians to own offshore companies as well as permitting offshore companies to invest in Malaysia," he said. Laws would also be introduced soon to recognise offshore businesses such as limited partnerships, securities industries and Islamic financial services. Malaysia is promoting Labuan as an international offshore financial hub. The duty-free island in the South China Sea, off Borneo, has been modelled after tax havens such as Bermuda, the British Virgin Islands and the Channel Islands. At present, Malaysians are not allowed to own non-financial offshore companies in Labuan. There are already some 800 offshore trading companies operating on the island. The Labuan IOFC is a key part of Malaysia's goal of becoming a regional financial centre and bankers on the island said Mahathir's strong support would make the centre more attractive to investors. "The things he mentioned in his speech today are definitely going to give a boost to the development of Labuan," said Nathaniel Savarimuthu, executive director of the Public Bank (L) Ltd. Bankers have said they hope to attract some of the $120 billion in Islamic funds parked in interest-free accounts around the world. Under Islam's Shariah principles, paying interest on money held in bank accounts is considered usury. The bankers have also been predicting large movement of funds from Hong Kong to Labuan as the colony reverts to Chinese control in 1997. ($1 = 2.49 ringgit) -- Kuala Lumpur newsroom (603 230 8911)