Japan's Matsushita Electric aims to steal a march on its rivals with the launch in November of digital videodisc (DVD) players, devices expected to eventually make compact discs and videocassette recorders obsolete. The giant consumer electronics firm announced on Thursday that it would launch two DVD models in Japan on November 1 at prices of 79,800 yen ($738) and 98,000 yen ($907). It aims to produce 30,000 players per month, a Matsushita official said. "We'll create a vast, new market through the sale of players, production of discs, development of key parts and the OEM business," Hiroshi Taniguchi, Matsushita's manager at DVD technical department, said at a news conference. OEM or original equipment manufacturer deals allow firms to produce equipment under their own brand name with components supplied by other manufacturers. DVDs, developed by the world's top 10 electronics and film makers, of which most are Japanese, can store 13 times more information in a single disc than a conventional compact disc, and can easily store a full-length movie. The DVD system is expected to spawn a host of multimedia titles, replacing CD-ROMs used in most personal computers. Matsushita's announcement comes at a time when other firms with patents on the technology, such as Toshiba Corp, which developed the unified format, are keeping mum on launch dates. But it is clear that problems still need to be sorted out. The movie industry and hardware makers are negotiating on a controversial "copyguard" system designed to prevent users from copying the discs on to other discs or videotape. "An informal agreement has been reached on the system's basic structure. We've moved to the process of putting final touches to measures to control the system," an industry official said. Regarding the system, a Matsushita official said: "We understand that we have reached a common understanding as far as DVD movie players are concerned." In fact, with firms involved trying to out-manoeuvre each other for a slice of the potentially lucrative market for DVDs -- the first multimedia product combining home entertainment, computers and Hollywood software makers -- negotiations are mired in various financial and technical issues, analysts said. The Hollywood studios, for instance, have asked hardware makers to design special coding to prevent movie discs from being played in parts of the world where the movies have yet to be released. But all manufacturers are unhappy with the request, an industry analyst said. "That would be a very unrealistic product in these times of the Internet world," he said. Talks on how to distribute royalty payments among the 10 makers are also difficult, other analysts said. One source said some makers want to make one-time payments to Toshiba to compensate it for its major role in promoting DVD, but Toshiba hopes for a higher royalty fee based on sales. Many analysts agree on the potential of the product but say it will take a few years for the DVD market to take off. "Sales will be slow for a while as the number of software titles available is still too small," said Kazuya Yamamoto, an analyst at Daiwa Research Institute. "A real sales boom won't come until computer discs, such as DVD-ROM (read-only memory) and DVD-RAM (rewritable memory) drives, are introduced."" A delay in audiovisual giant Sony Corp's launch of its players, following a last-minute switch to the unified DVD format, may limit DVD sales this year, analysts said. ($1=108 yen)