North Korea has allowed a South Korean to live in the Stalinist state for the first time since the end of the 1950-53 Korean War, a newspaper report said in Seoul. The Dong-A Ilbo newspaper quoted Kim Young-il, a bureau director at the South Korean Unification Ministry, as telling a seminar in Seoul that Pyongyang had permitted an executive of Daewoo Corp, now in the North, to live there for the operation of an inter-Korean joint venture company. In its Friday morning edition seen late on Thursday, the daily said it was the first time the North had allowed a South Korean to reside in the communist state since the Korean War ended. South Korean government officials were not available for comment. The newspaper also quoted Kim as saying North Korea had allowed 10 Daewoo technicians to stay there for a maximum of three months. Previous visits to the North by Daewoo technicians were limited to a maximum of two months, Kim was quoted as saying. Daewoo Corp, a unit of the giant Daewoo Group, was the first South Korean company to obtain government approval to set up an industrial venture in the North. The final go-ahead was given to Daewoo in May 1995. Daewoo said it had sent an 11-member team to launch the company in the North Korean port of Nampo earlier this month. It said the 50:50 venture, in which it has invested $5.12 million, had a capacity to produce 3.1 million shirts and blouses, 600,000 jackets and 300,000 bags a year. In November 1994, South Korea lifted a ban on business trips to North Korea and allowed local firms to set up offices there. Since then, the Seoul government has accepted applications from about 20 domestic conglomerates and companies to hold talks with North Koreans on business projects. The cash-strapped North has tried to attract investment in its industrial development programmes. Seoul officials have said they hoped economic cooperation between the two Koreas would lead to dialogue and ease hostility on the peninsula divided at the end of World War Two. North and South Korea remain technically at war since the Korean conflict ended with an armistice agreement, not a peace treaty.