Asian bankers had plenty to talk about Thursday despite a dearth of new debt deals. Starting with Indonesia, bankers say APP Global Finance, a subsidiary of Asia Pulp and Paper, now plans to raise funds solely through a floating rate note issue. The company had been expected to raise US$500 million through a combination of an FRN and a 144a fixed-rate bond. Union Bank of Switzerland is the arranger. Asian bankers say the FRN might be a hard sell because it is secured by Asia Pulp and Paper shares. Equity backing is considered less desirable than a claim on property, for example, because stock prices are more volatile. Asia Pulp and Paper is a member of the Sinar Mas group, which currently has another deal in the market via Sinar Mas Finance, which on Wednesday launched a US$50 million floating rate note issue. Another Sinar Mas member, Tjiwi Kima, is seen bringing a loan issue. From South Korea, Kwangju Bank has mandated KDB Asia to arrange its first floating rate note issue. Bankers said the US$50 million FRN has a final maturity of three years and will pay a margin of 45 basis points over the six-month London Interbank Offered Rate. Fees are not decided yet. Kwangju Bank is one of South Korea's specialized banks. Another specialized bank, Kyungki, has a three-year FRN in the market that is paying a coupon of 40 basis points and an all-in return of 49 basis points to the top tier. Bankers report that about US$10 million of the Kyungki deal has been sold so far. Among the other specialised banks, Kyongnam Bank also has a deal in the works, while Chung Chong Bank is considering a transaction as well. Korea Exchange Bank Hong Kong's HK$500 million floating rate certificate of deposit is expected to launch next week via Chase Manhattan Asia and Jardine Fleming Bank. The deal has a final maturity of 364 days. There have been a few one-year transactions for Korean credits in the last couple of months and bankers said that tenor has advantages for both parties to the deal. With Korea expected to join the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development this year, Korean banks may want to issue short-dated paper on the view that they can refinance in 1997 much more cheaply. For lenders, the short-dated FRCDs offer a better return than commercial paper. Moreover, paper maturing in less than a year qualifies for a 20-percent risk weighting. Bankers said Kookmin Bank is considering a three-year Hong Kong dollar deal. The all-in is expected to be in the mid-50s over the Hong Kong Interbank Offered Rate. PCI Bank's rumoured new issue is expected to carry a five-year maturity and, even more unusual for Philippines bank credit, a fixed coupon. In Thailand, Siam City Bank is expected to come to market with an FRN. There's also a Thai Yankee in the offing, with petroleum concern PTTE&P expected to bring a bond. Singapore's Total Access, which recently had its senior debt rated BBB-minus by Standard and Poor's Corp, also is seen launching a Yankee issue. Late on Wednesday Union Bank of Switzerland said that Countrywide Corp's floating rate note issue had been raised US$100 million to US$250 million due to robust demand. UBS, which took a large share of the original amount to take advantage of the strong secondary market interest, reportedly took the full US$100 million. Taiwan's First Commercial Bank is expected to launch its FRCD on Friday. -- Andrea Ricci (852) 2843-6371 fax (852) 2845-0636