Lawyers representing detained Indonesian labour leader Muchtar Pakpahan complained on Thursday that his rights were being ignored while he was being kept in custody facing subversion charges. In a letter to Attorney-General Singgih, released to the media, three of Pakpahan's lawyers said he had only been questioned once since he was detained on July 30 but his detention had been extended to allow further questioning. Subversion carries the death penalty in Indonesia. "Because of the vacuum between the time Mucthar Pakpahan was questioned, it (is) clear he is being deprived of his rights which are guaranteed under the criminal code procedures," the letter said. The three prominent human rights lawyers, R.O. Tambunan, Luhut Pangaribuan and Luthfie Hakim, said Singgih had made a number of public statements that the rights of those detained since the riots last month would be respected under the law. The United States, Australia and the European Union all urged Indonesia in the wake of the riots to follow due process in handling all those detained, including leader of the unrecognised Indonesia Labour Welfare Union (SBSI). But the lawyers said the attorney-general was ignoring the code, or KUHAP, a section of which gave an accused the right to be questioned, taken to court and, if found guilty, sentenced as soon as possible. "The detention of Muchtar Pakpahan is premature. It shows the attorney-general is not sensitive enough to the rights of the accused in detention as guaranteed under the KUHAP," they said. The letter called on Singgih to complete the questioning as soon as possible and take Pakpahan's case to court. It also called for restrictions on his access to lawyers and family members to be lifted, and for Pakpahan to be allowed writing materials, sunlight and exercise for the sake of his health. Pakpahan was jailed in November 1994 for three years on charges of inciting riots in Medan that year. On appeal his sentence was increased to four years but he was released in May last year.