Hong Kong's monthly trade deficit was halved in July, and analysts said it reflected an economic upturn in mainland China but warned that Hong Kong's small, open economy was still too reliant on imports. Figures issued by the Census and Statistics Department on Thursday showed a provisional visible trade deficit in July of HK$6.6 billion, versus HK$15.02 billion in June. "This is definitely a vast improvement," said Arthur Woo, an economist with NatWest Markets, who pinned the narrowing deficit on the beginnings of an economic revival in China. "Hong Kong is a huge entrepot for exports and imports to and from China, so if the mainland economy revives its domestic consumption increases, and it affects our exports," he said. "We believe China has started the upturn of a new economic cycle and this should bode well for Hong Kong's economy." Woo said the territory's import growth had been subdued this year, reflecting a decline in the retail sector which had dampened demand for imports. "Overall activity is subdued in the territory... the demand for imports of raw materials and goods related to the new airport and overall general infrastructure has quietened down." But Woo said Hong Kong could not expect its trade gap to narrow much further. "This is largely a service-related economy. It relies on much of its goods being supplied from outside." Joanne Yim, manager of economic research at Hang Seng Bank, said the narrowing of the trade gap was no surprise given weak consumer demand. "Our import growth is low, reflecting the fact that consumer spending, while on an upward trend, remains pretty weak," she said. Hong Kong could not expect to close the trade gap. "Our economy is such a small and open one. What we consume we have to import," Yim said. George Leung, an economist with HSBC Markets, said that the territory's trade performance was improving but not about to set records. "Any uppick in consumer demand is just not strong enough to conclude that our external trade performance is in much better shape," Leung said. "It's not so much that we have improved, but that we had an exceptionally poor performance in June. At best the July figures show that we're getting back to normal rather than depicting a sharp improvement." Leung said Hong Kong's economy was still hobbled by China's exports, which had declined dramatically and were not recovering quickly. Once China's economy rebounded, Hong Kong's performance would pick up, boosting consumption and imports. But "that trade gap will always be there," he said. -- Hong Kong Newsroom (852) 2843 6441