Johnson Electric Holdings Ltd's first-half sales have surged, vindicating the company's heavy investment in capacity expansion despite the toll on profits, chairman and chief executive Patrick Wang said on Thursday. "We're having record sales," Wang said in an interview. "We had a strong first half last year, and first half this year is a lot better than first-half last year." "Let's hope the second half doesn't turn out to be like last year," he added. In the year ended March 31, the Hong Kong micromotor maker's turnover grew 24 percent in the first half but just 3.5 percent in the second. With second half sales slower than expected, the effects of heavy depreciation and higher costs were accentuated and annual net profit fell 18.7 percent to HK$275 million (US$35.3 million). "In retrospect, probably last year in one year we overspent because we were forecasting a very big increase (in sales) which did not materialise in the way that we saw," Wang said. "But...we were lucky to have made those investments because it takes time to train up the staff and people, so were able to capitalise on the surge for our business this year," he said. Johnson is the world's second largest maker of micromotors, and its tiny products turn up in everything from hair dryers to computer printers. Wang said Johnson had naively tried to pass on higher costs to customers last year and suffered defections at the lower end. This year it was cutting costs and winning back market share. Chief financial officer Paul Tong said the company was not yet sure with one more month to go if it could beat last year's first-half sales growth figure, but it should be close. Wang said Johnson was taking a four-pronged strategy to cut costs -- reducing exposure to yen-based inputs, producing more components in-house, better matching raw materials to product specifications and using more standardised components. He said Johnson had already been working to source materials from places like Taiwan, but when the yen surged was dismayed to discover some suppliers themselves had yen-based costs. "They had Japanese engineering, Japanese production equipment, Japanese managment, and they produce in Taiwan but depreciation is in yen, they have to pay back that loan in yen, so same difference," he said. "We were much less sophisticated." Now Johnson was making sure suppliers had as little Japanese overhead as possible, and while it was less successful finding alternate equipment sources, it was finding alternate materials suppliers quite successfully, he said. Greater production of components in-house also allowed Johnson to buy "rawer" raw materials, easing the task of finding non-Japanese sources, Wang said. While making components in-house cost money, the effort was worthwhile because Johnson could boost efficiency and reduce final costs by matching components to end uses better than outside suppliers had been able to, he said. "They would make statements like 'this is what Japanese companies use, this is good for you', like vitamin pills," Wang said. "We liked our own medicine a lot better." Heavy capital investment was also tied to the need to make components in-house from less-processed materials, he said. While the heavy investment had proved a burden on profit growth for the past several years, leading to some concern among investors, Wang said it had been worthwhile for the long term. "We had an impact because of the high depreciation and investments, but I think in the coming years, shareholders should be very happy with the returns they'll be getting." (US$1=HK$7.8)