Venezuelan officials left Japan on Thursday after two days of talks, unable to resolve a smouldering dispute that could upset an IMF-mandated plan to privatise Venezuela's aluminium sector by the year-end. The Venezuelan government has been squabbling since the beginning of the year with a Japanese consortium that owns 20 percent of Venalum, Latin America's largest aluminium refinery and the only profitable enterprise of the four Venezuelan aluminium companies to be privatised. "We haven't received any reasonable proposal from the Japanese," said Elias Ynaty, president of Corporacion Venezolana de Guayana, the state-owned holding company that has the other 80 percent of Venalum. "We are very concerned." He said the Venezuelans hoped to hold another round of talks with the Japanese in Venezuela in early September. Failure to reach agreement then could mean Venezuela's aluminium sector will not be privatised by the year-end as scheduled. A spokesman for chemical maker Showa Denko KK, the leading company in the Japanese consortium, said it had not yet agreed to a September meeting and that there were still differences separating the two sides. At issue are special veto powers held by the Japanese minority that would allow it to nix decisions on mergers, investments and other matters. Ynaty argued that the Japanese veto powers, in addition to reducing the value of the Venalum shares that the government plans to privatise, had cast doubts on the fairness of the bidding process. "We have received (expressions of) concern of many companies that are participating in the bidding," he said. "They think the Japanese have some advantage." Trading firm Marubeni Corp, one of the members of the Japanese Venalum consortium, and another giant trader, Mitsubishi Corp, are among 17 companies that have registered to participate in the bidding for Venalum and the three other aluminium concerns. In an effort to pressure the Japanese to relinquish those powers, Venalum suspended in February the 90,000-tonne-per-year ingot shipments stipulated in an equity agreement, saying a supply contract with the Japanese had run out. The Japanese side argued it was entitled to the shipments under the equity agreement and that it would not discuss the veto issue until shipments were resumed. Venezuela recently decided to ship 14,000 tonnes to Japan in what it called a sign of good will ahead of this week's talks. When the talks failed to reach an agreement, however, Ynaty lashed out at Showa Denko. "Showa Denko has persisted in its desire to maintain a privileged position within Venalum," he said, adding that the Japanese company was "blocking the Venezuelan government's aluminium industry privatisation programme". The Showa Denko spokesman countered that the Japanese consortium was simply looking after its legitimate interests. "The current veto power is strictly to protect the minority shareholders," he said. "I don't think it should pose a problem for whoever holds the majority." He also rejected Ynaty's argument that the Japanese veto powers were a matter of concern to non-Japanese bidders. "The companies entering (the bidding) can evaluate the company as it is," he said, adding that the veto powers were in plain view for all potential bidders to see. The Venezuelan government agreed with the International Monetary Fund (IMF) earlier this year to implement a number of economic reforms, including privatisation of state-owned businesses, in return for a $1.4 billion stand-by loan.