A price war set off by China's top television maker has brought it spectacular dividends but sharply reduced the profits of most local manufacturers, including listed ones, analysts said on Thursday. The competition will result in a rationalisation of the industry and set off mergers and bankruptcies to correct years of adding excess capacity, they said. The war was launched on March 26 by Sichuan Chang Hong Electric Co, the nation's biggest television manufacturer with a 17.6 percent domestic market share and output of 3.05 million sets in 1995, which announced a cut of 80 yuan to 100 yuan ($10 to $12) on its products. This forced other major manufacturers to follow suit and hurt their profits in the first half of the year. An official of Shenzhen Konka Electronic (Group) Co, a major producer, said his company was forced to reduce prices by the Chang Hong cut. The reduction helped to raise Konka's sales by 20 percent in the first half but profits increased little, he added. The firm's market share also dropped to nine percent from 12. "Although some major companies increased sales thanks to the price cuts, many small manufacturers found that they were losing money," said one industry analyst. "Many Chinese TV makers are a result of excess growth in the industry in the past few years, which has caused an output surplus," he added. "The scale of production of many of them is small and their costs are high. The Chang Hong price cut was a cut-throat move." As of the end of 1995, China had 90 television makers but only 12 had an annual capacity of more than 500,000 sets, official statistics show. In the first seven months of 1996, they produced 11.13 million sets but sold only 9.8 million. One of the first victims of the price war is likely to be Shanghai-listed Hang He Machinery and Electronics Co (600831.SS, Chinese brokers said. After posting heavy losses in 1995, the company reported first-half 1996 losses of 37.39 million yuan. The local Shaanxi Province government has asked another Shanghai-listed company to take it over, they said. But Chang Hong is laughing all the way to the bank. It announced interim profits of 554.07 million yuan, up from 350.7 million, and said it had captured 26.98 percent of the market in 100 department stores in 35 major cities in June. Analysts see the price war as accelerating a shake-out in the industry that would have come anyway. "The price war will benefit the whole market in the long run, with more firms having to take measures to cut cost," the analyst said. "Competition will force the industry to re-organise, promote large-scale production and help major companies and eliminate small and unqualified small ones." An official of Hong Kong-listed Nanjing Panda Co said that many television companies were considering how to enhance their technology to cut cost and improve quality. ($1 = 8.3 yuan)