Malaysia is not likely to allow trading in the ringgit at its international offshore financial centre (IOFC) in Labuan in the near future, Deputy Prime Minister and Finance Minister Anwar Ibrahim was quoted as saying by bankers on Thursday. But, personal tax incentives to attract skilled financial and other support services were being considered and would be included in the national annual budget to be presented in Parliament in October, he told bankers in a private meeting. At present, offshore banks in Labuan are allowed to trade in every currency except the ringgit.   Anwar said at a dialogue session with chief executives of local banks that it would be unfair to banks in Kuala Lumpur to allow ringgit business in Labuan, an island off the coast of Borneo in the South China Sea. "He told us that 'you can't have banks with tax breaks and incentives in Labuan competing with banks in KL (Kuala Lumpur)'," a senior banker who was present at the meeting told Reuters. Another banker said Anwar was also reluctant to accept suggestions for restricted amount of ringgit business. "However, he promised to clear some pending proposals of incentives to attract personnel to Labuan in the October budget," he said. "He was referring to tax incentives," he added. At present, professionals have to pay personal taxes on par with those in other parts of Malaysia, though offshore banks in Labuan have to pay a low corporate tax of only three percent or a maximum 20,000 ringgit a year.   Earlier, Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad said Malaysia will amend laws relating to its international offshore financial centre (IOFC) on Labuan island and help boost its attraction to international fund managers. Mahathir was speaking at the inauguration of the Labuan Financial Park, a 360 million ringgit commercial complex which houses 50 banks and several insurance and other financial services companies doing offshore business. Malaysia is actively promoting Labuan isle in the South China Sea as an international offshore financial hub. The duty-free island has been modelled after the many tax havens that exist across the world. -- Kuala Lumpur newsroom (603 230 8911)