Four of the 11 seamen who died in an apparent mutiny in the South Pacific on board a fishing boat perished in the ship's deep freeze, a South Korean police officer said on Thursday. He said surving crewmembers on board the Pescarmar No. 15, now being towed to South Korean, told Seoul investigators three Indonesians and one Chinese mainlander had frozen to death. It was not clear whether the bodies were still in the refrigerator or had been dumped overboard, he said. The bodies of the other victims -- all South Koreans, including the skipper -- had definitely been tossed into the sea, the maritime police officer said by telephone from the southern port of Pusan. Thirteen seamen survived the high seas drama, among them six Chinese mainlanders who are ethnic Koreans and who South Korean authorities allege rose up in mutiny against harsh working conditions. The police officer said a crude raft fashioned from wooden planks was found on board the Pescarmar. But he could not confirm local news reports that the raft was part of an escape plan by the alleged mutineers. He also declined to comment on reports that murder weapons had been found on the fishing boat and there were bloodstains on the walls of the wheelhouse. On Wednesday a South Korean coastguard ship took over the Honduras-registered 250-gross ton vessel from Japanese maritime authorities in international waters about 550 km (340 miles) south of Tokyo. The boat is expected to arrive in Pusan early on Saturday, the officer said. It was originally scheduled to dock on Friday but has been delayed by heavy seas. Korean police have said a mutiny apparently occurred on August 2 when radio contact was lost with the fishing boat as it headed towards the island of Samoa. It was found drifting last Sunday with empty fuel tanks. The alleged mutineers are being held in cabins aboard the South Korean coastguard vessel and will be arrested when they arrive in Pusan. "This is the first such mutiny in which South Korean sailors were killed, although there were some murder cases during fights among fishermen," an Inchon maritime police spokesman said.