Israel's former premier Shimon Peres said the Middle East peace process faced a serious crisis, and only a meeting between his successor Benjamin Netanyahu and Palestine leader Yasser Arafat could break the deadlock. Commenting on the refusal of Netanyahu to meet Arafat, Peres described the decision as a political mistake. "Arafat is our partner, a legal partner, there can be no agreement without him...It is a political mistake not to meet him...The better the Palestinian situation will be, the better the peace plan will go ahead," he said. Peres, on a private visit to Morocco, met King Hassan at the coastal resort of Skhirat, 20 km (12 miles) south of Rabat, for more than an hour on Thursday, officials said. "His Majesty King Hassan and I discussed several issues including the Middle East peace process," Peres told Reuters, without elaborating. Commenting on Thursday's general strike in the West Bank and Gaza against Israeli policy on settlements and on Jerusalem, Peres said Israeli leaders should change their policy to overcome the crisis. "There is a serious crisis because there was a change of policy...Israel should look for ways and means to overcome the crisis and go back to the peace negotiations," he said. A day after he accused Israel of declaring war on the Palestinians, Arafat held talks with Yitzhak Molho, a lawyer close to Netanyahu, that led to a meeting between senior negotiators on the two sides. "I welcomed the meeting because it will enable the two parties to debate the situation...There is a long list of issues that should be clarified," he said. "When you have a partner like Arafat, you can make your plans," Peres said , adding: "Arafat is a great man, because he took serious decisions to go in the direction of peace and reach agreements with Israel." Accompanied with his wife and grandson Nadab, 14, Peres arrived in Morocco on August 25. A palace statement issued earlier said King Hassan, who has known Peres for more than a decade, has welcomed him in Morocco. It insisted that Peres's visit was purely private and with no links with the internal political situation in Israel. "I came here with my grandchild... We visited Casablanca and the southern city of Marrakesh. Nadab came to Morocco to see our past and see his future generation," Peres said. A group of 10,000 Moroccan Jews live in the country's main cities, including the financial centre of Casablanca