Palestinians and Israel's right-wing government revived negotiations on Thursday following a four-hour general strike in the West Bank and Gaza against Israeli policy on settlements and Jerusalem. A day after he accused Israel of declaring war on the Palestinians, President Yasser Arafat held talks with Yitzhak Molho, a lawyer close to Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, that led to a meeting between senior negotiators of the two sides. The negotiators, former Israeli army chief Dan Shomron and Palestinian Local Government Minister Saeb Erekat, met for an hour in a Jerusalem hotel and said the Steering Committee they chair would begin to convene regularly as of next week. The committee oversees implementation of Israel-Palestinian self-rule deals. It has not met since Netanyahu was elected last May. "Our role as a steering committee is to solve problems and to continue the peace process, to do this in a good spirit," Shomron told reporters. "I believe after this meeting that we have the ability to advance all the issues that today are found at different levels of implementation," he said. Later on Thursday, Netanyahu aide Dore Gold met senior PLO negotiator Mahmoud Abbas, better known as Abu Mazen. Palestinian officials said U.S. ambassador to Israel, Martin Indyk, was mediating between the two sides and had met Arafat on Thursday. Foremost among the unsettled issues is Israel's long-delayed troop redeployment in the West Bank city of Hebron, where some 450 Jewish settlers live among more than 100,000 Palestinians. "The peace process will be judged not in accordance with press conferences given by us but through the implementation of agreements on the ground," Erekat said. "It is not a secret that the status of peace is slipping like sand outside our fingers." Shops and businesses shut for four hours across the West Bank and Gaza, as well as Israeli-annexed Arab East Jerusalem, in response to a strike call by Arafat. He condemned at a meeting of the Palestinian legislature on Wednesday the Netanyahu government's pledge to expand Jewish settlement and its insistence that East Jerusalem will remain forever under Israeli control. The PLO wants East Jerusalem as the capital of a future Palestinian state. The strike was the first in both the West Bank and Gaza since Israel handed parts of the areas to Palestinian self-rule in 1994. Residents said the stoppage was widely observed but a Reuters photographer in Hebron said most shops in the city, still under Israeli guns, remained open. In a move likely to fuel further Palestinian anger, Israel disclosed more plans to build additional homes in Jewish settlements in the West Bank. "(Defence Minister Yitzhak Mordechai) approved a number of construction plans in existing settlements. These are building plans which had been approved in the past by the (Labour) government and later frozen," his spokesman Avi Benayahu said. He declined to say how many homes would be built. The Maariv newspaper put the number at 3,550. It said Israel would add 700 housing units to the settlement of Kiryat Sefer, 1,050 to Hashmonaim, 900 to a nearby Jewish seminary, 200 to Matityahu and 700 to Betar Ilit. All are just inside the West Bank, near Jerusalem. Palestinian Higher Education Minister Hanan Ashrawi told reporters Palestinians were not interested in Israeli "promises in the air". "The real proof (of Israel's intentions) is in this decision to build thousands more housing units, to confiscate more land, to expand settlements and settlement activities," she said.