Novell Inc. Chairman and Chief Executive Robert Frankenberg resigned Thursday after slightly more than two years at the helm of the struggling computer network software company. Novell said John Young, former president and chief executive officer of Hewlett-Packard Co., would replace Frankenberg as chairman, and the company said it had begun a search for a new chief executive. Novell's executive vice president of worldwide sales, Joseph Marengi, was promoted to president, a post that Frankenberg had also held. Frankenberg, a former Hewlett-Packard executive recruited in April 1994 to succeed the Orem, Utah-based company's longtime chief, Ray Noorda, struggled to reinvent Novell as industry leader Microsoft Corp. fiercely attacked its core business. At the same time he was forced to dispose of businesses, including the WordPerfect Corp. word-processing unit and DR-DOS operating system that he inherited from Noorda, who had acquired the operations in a seemingly obsessive drive to compete with Microsoft and its chairman, Bill Gates. Frankenberg was widely liked but was unable to articulate a strategy that could satisfy Novell customers, analysts said. "The sad thing is this guy Frankenberg was very qualified, and it makes you wonder 'If he can't do it, who can?'" said one software industry analyst. Novell had performed erratically under Frankenberg, posting lower earnings in six of the nine quarters during which he ran the company. One informal industry survey done by an independent consultant in recent weeks found more than three-fourths of respondents expressed doubt about whether Frankenberg could turn the company around. Nevertheless, David Coursey, publisher and editor of the new online newsletter Coursey.Com, noted that the company has doggedly held onto the major portion of its market share in networking software despite the challenge from Microsoft's high-end Windows NT system. "You're still talking about a company with a worldwide market share of over 60 percent," Coursey said. "You can't kill a company that has that much going for it in a year." But, Novell needed to avoid the downward spiral known in the industry as "The Wang Factor," named for the sharp 1980s downfall of Wang Laboratories, which once dominated word processing applications. In a teleconference, Marengi acknowledged Novell's problems but expressed confidence they could be solved. "It's been a very tough time for the last year and a half," Marengi said. "We have a real situation that we need to turn around and it can be turned around very quickly." He said more aggressive marketing was one key to success. "We've been relatively passive in the past few years and that's something that we're going to change over the next few months." Analysts said Novell faces many challenges in months ahead. "It's a difficult situation. Life does not get immediately better just because Frankenberg's gone," Coursey said. "They've always done their best by being where Microsoft isn't; they just haven't figured out where that's going to be." Novell's recent push has been to accelerate its support for the Internet and corporate internal networks based on that technology, known as Intranets, a market that could attract customers who use its network software. "I think it's too early to write Novell off," Coursey added. "The industry tends to overreact to both good and bad news." Novell's stock fell 62.5 cents to $10.375 on Nasdaq. Young, 64, was president and chief executive of Hewlett-Packard for 15 years through 1992. Novell said he would be actively involved in overseeing management of the company until the appointment of a new chief executive.