U.S. aviation authorities on Thursday gave ValuJet Airlines tentative approval to resume operations, and officials said the low-cost carrier could be flying in again in a week. Atlanta-based ValuJet was grounded on June 17 after a heightened safety inspection of the carrier following a crash in the Florida Everglades on May 11 that killed 110 people. The Federal Aviation Administration said it returned the carrier's operating certificate after a review found ValuJet to have corrected the maintenance and operation failings that led to the grounding. The Transportation Department, the FAA's parent agency, also issued a tentative finding that ValuJet's management and its financial status made it fit and able to operate a scheduled air service. Officials said interested people had seven days to challenge ValuJet's fitness and if no objections were raised, they would move promptly to issue final flight approval. They added there would be four days for response to any objections, and then the department would review the complaints and responses before acting. ValuJet, whenever final flight approval is given, would get close safety scrutiny, the officials said. Even if all goes well, ValuJet will resume flights as a far smaller carrier than when grounded. At that time, it flew 51 planes between cities throughout the southeast U.S. At first, it would be will allowed to fly nine planes and add six more over the next few days. Further additions would require closer FAA oversight. In Atlanta, ValuJet President Lewis Jordan told a news conference he could not speculate on when the airline would resume flying but said it was "highly conceivable" it would be within 30 days. He also predicted higher costs in the short term. The FAA first began closer oversight of the fast-growing carrier in 1995, after a series of accidents, and intensified the scrutiny after the Everglades crash. Investigators have not yet determined the cause of the crash, but they believe that improperly labeled oxgyen generators in the plane's cargo hold may have started the fire that led to the crash. When it grounded ValuJet, the FAA cited operational and maintenance shortcomings, saying safe operations were called into questions by the numerous outside maintenance stations it used as well as to its lack of safety oversight. In returning ValuJet's certificate to fly, the FAA required the carrier to retrain its pilots, instructors and maintenance personnel and to reduce the number of outside contractors it uses for maintenance and repair. In addition, it must initially fly only one configuration of the DC-9 aircraft it uses to make it easier to train flight crews and the workers who maintain the planes. The FAA has acknowledged that ValuJet grew too quickly and the agency did not give the start-up airline the close watch it should have, but they said this past shortcoming was being remedied. The department, in its tenative approval, said the principle managers at the carrier were fully qualified to oversee their carrier's operations, a ncessary finding. It added that a review of the company's forecasts and current financial condition showed it to have available funds to allow its limited resumption of flights without undue economic risk to consumers.