Powerful Hurricane Edouard continued a march across the open waters of the Atlantic on Thursday, but Leeward Island hurricane alerts were dropped as weaker Hurricane Fran set a course north of the Caribbean. The National Hurricane Centre was tracking a series of tropical weather systems that stretched across the Atlantic Ocean from off the coast of Africa almost to the Bahamas. Forecasters urged residents along much of the U.S. eastern seaboard to stay tuned to weather forecasts during the Labour Day holiday weekend as climate conditions steering Edouard shifted slightly, increasing the storm's threat to coastal states from Georgia northward. Edouard continued to strengthen, with maximum sustained winds rising to 140 mph (225 kmh), and made its predicted turn to the northwest, but forecasters said computer models indicated a high pressure ridge could force the storm toward the mid-Atlantic coast in three days. "It looks to me like the biggest risk is the Carolinas ... particularly because it's the Labour Day weekend," National Hurricane Centre forecaster Jerry Jarrell said. At 5 p.m. EDT (2100 GMT), Edouard was 785 miles (1,250 km) south-southeast of Cape Hatteras, North Carolina, at latitude 25.1 north and longitude 69.5 west. It was moving northwest at 13 mph (21 kmh). In coastal areas of North Carolina battered by Hurricane Bertha in mid-July, residents and business owners took a wait-and-see attitude. Motel owners in Hatteras Village said they had had few cancellations as people seemed to be holding to their Labour Day weekend plans, at least for the moment. "I think people are waiting to see what it's going to do," Katie Oden, owner of the Sea Gull motel, said. "It might hurt us even if it does turn, but you got to take it as it comes." Forecasters discontinued hurricane watches for the Leeward Islands as Hurricane Fran remained weak and was expected to pass north of the islands of the northeastern Caribbean. At 5 p.m. EDT (2100 GMT), it was located 255 miles (400 km) east-northeast of Antigua at latitude 18.8 north and longitude 58.2 west and moving west-northwest at 13 mph (21 kmh). The storm was a minimal hurricane, with top winds of 75 mph (120 kmh), and forecasters said little change in strength was expected in the next day. NASA said on Thursday it was prepared to haul shuttle Atlantis back to its hangar if Edouard or Fran threatened Florida's Kennedy Space Centre. Tropical Storm Gustav was lined up behind Fran, at latitude 15.1 north and longitude 38.3 west, about 870 miles (1400 km) west-southwest of the Cape Verde Islands. It had maximum winds of 45 mph (75 kmh) and was on a northwesterly course that was expected to keep it safely out at sea. "It's the busiest time of the year for hurricanes," National Hurricane Centre forecaster Bill Fredericks said. "The peak of the season is always around the Labour Day holiday."