The economy grew even more quickly last spring than the rapid pace first reported, the government said Thursday, raising doubts a second-half slowdown will occur soon enough to head off higher interest rates. A series of reports showed stronger-than-expected overall economic growth in the spring, a big jump in new-home sales in July and a firm labour market that analysts said was underpinning solid job and income gains. The Commerce Department said the nation's gross domestic product grew at a revised 4.8 percent annual rate in the second quarter -- the strongest in two years -- up from the initial 4.2 percent rate estimated a month ago. GDP measures the value of all goods and services produced in the United States. The second-quarter performance more than doubled the first quarter's 2 percent growth rate and was expected to fuel concern among Federal Reserve policy-makers about a possible pickup in inflation. "The economy is not slowing down fast enough and that is going to lead to higher interest rates sooner rather than later," said economist Sung Won Sohn at Norwest Corp. in Minneapolis. He estimated there was a 50-50 chance the Fed's policy-making Federal Open Market Committee will raise short-term interest rates at its next meeting Sept. 24 in a bid to slow the economy and ward off inflation. Sohn said he thought the economy would grow at a 3 percent rate in the third quarter, well above the 2 percent to 2-1/4 percent pace that central bank policy-makers consider sustainable without risking a jump in wages and prices. The department said in a separate report that sales of new homes jumped 7.9 percent in July to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 783,000 units -- the strongest since February, when new homes were selling at rate of 784,000 a year. In a third report, the Labour Department said new claims for unemployment insurance rose 4,000 to 331,000 last week. The four-week moving average, considered a more accurate gauge because it levels out the volatile weekly numbers, increased by 9,250 to 323,250 claims. The White House sought credit for the strong economic performance, with chief economist Joseph Stiglitz noting the GDP data "strengthens our view that the U.S. economy is achieving the kind of strong economic growth that can raise America's living standards." Robert Dederick, economic consultant to Northern Trust Co., said that notwithstanding last week's rise in jobless claims, the labour market remains "very, very firm." "It does seem that the Fed cannot afford to relax," Dederick said, adding that he foresees third-quarter GDP growth at a 2.8 percent to 3 percent rate with no indication of a slowdown in the fourth quarter. The big upward revision in second-quarter GDP rattled financial markets, with the bellwether 30-year Treasury bond dropping 23/32, or $7.19 on a $1,000 bond. Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, climbed to 7.04 percent from 6.98 percent Wednesday. The jump in long-term interest rates contributed to a steep drop in the stock market, where the Dow Jones industrial fell 64.73 points to 5,647.65. "It shows the economy was very strong in the second quarter," said Gary Thayer, senior economist at AG Edwards and Sons Inc. "If the economy is slowing down from this 4.8 percent annual rate, it would have to slow down quite a bit just to be back to normal." The last time the economy grew more strongly was the second quarter of 1994, when GDP expanded at a 4.9 percent annual rate. The department said several factors accounted for the stronger growth, including a smaller drag on the economy from huge trade imbalances with the rest of the world because imports were not as strong as originally thought. Imports grew at a 9.4 percent annual rate in the second quarter rather than 12.9 percent as estimated a month ago. Inventories were leaner heading into the second half than the department initially estimated. It said businesses added to stocks of unsold goods at a $7.2 billion annual rate in the quarter instead of a $10.3 billion rate estimated a month ago. A combination of increased business investment and smaller inventories suggested there was more room for companies to boost output in the second half. A possible restraint is that consumer spending in the second quarter was not as strong as first estimated. Personal consumption spending grew at a 3.4 percent annual rate rather than a 3.7 percent rate, the department said. Despite strong growth in the spring, there was little sign that prices were heating up. The implicit price deflator, a measure of inflation, rose at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the quarter -- the same as estimated a month ago -- down from a 2.2 percent increase in the first quarter.