Dick Morris, President Bill Clinton's controversial political consultant, has resigned in the wake of reports that he was embroiled in a year-long affair with a $200-an-hour prostitute, campaign sources said onThursday. White House spokesman Mike McCurry refused to comment on the reports, saying he would be in a better position to talk about them at a midday briefing in Clinton's headquarters at the Democratic National Convention in Chicago. "I know there are reports out there. I have no comment on those reports. I'll be in a better position to have some comment when I do my regular daily briefing at 1 p.m.," he said. Morris' resignation, confirmed by campaign sources, followed published reports that the married 48-year-old political consultant engaged in a year-long affair with a 37-year-old prostitute on a weekly basis at the Jefferson Hotel in Washington, his home away from his real Connecticut home while working for Clinton. The reports were published by the supermarket weekly tabloid Star magazine and reprinted in Thursday's edition of the New York Post. The Post said the tabloid had photos and videotapes to back up its story which The Star said the woman brought to them and was paid an undisclosed amount. White House officials said they first learned of the reports on Wednesday night as Clinton wound up an exuberant, four-day whistle-stop train tour across the Midwest and was nominated by the Democratic Party for a second term. James Carville, Clinton's top political consultant in 1992, said he too had learned of the allegations Wednesday night. "I find that hard to believe. I think he's much too bright a guy," he said. Asked if Morris' departure would hurt the Clinton campaign, he replied: "I think Dick's done a good job. But the graveyard is full of indispensable men." Morris has been credited with helping Clinton to reposition himself as a political centrist, a move widely believed to have sparked the president's comeback from the 1994 rout of Democrats in mid-term congressional elections. Morris, a liberal who became a conservative Republican, drew the ire of Clinton aides for repositioning the president in the political centre and became a very controversial figure. But at the convention he received much press coverage including flattering profiles in Time magazine and USA Today. The Star said Morris bragged to the woman, who it identified as Sherry Rowlands, about how politically powerful he was, letting her secretly listen to phone conversations with the president and revealing his nicknames for the Clintons, calling the president "The Monster" and first lady Hillary Rodham Clinton "The Twister." The magazine said Morris even let Rowlands read the first lady's speech to the convention in Chicago five nights before she delivered it. The magazine headlined its story "White House Call Girl Scandal" and published photographs allegedly showing the woman and Morris embracing. Rowlands, who lives in the Virginia suburbs of Washington, kept a diary, The Star said, in which she included steamy details of their affair and accounts of secrets that Morris allegedly told her, including one that "only seven in the world know about" -- the discovery of possible life on Mars. A week later the announcement was made that traces of a primitive life form were found on a meteorite that crashed into Earth 13,000 years ago.