By Gail Appleson, Law Correspondent A federal jury on Thursday began deliberating whether three radical Moslems planned to bomb 12 U.S. passenger jets to punish the United States for its support of Israel. The case against Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, the alleged mastermind of the plot, and two other defendants went to the jury after a full day of instructions on the law. The trial started in May. The jury broke after about an hour on Thursday evening and will return on Tuesday. Panellists are not sequestered, but their names and addresses are being kept secret. Yousef was one of the world's most wanted fugitives until he was arrested in February 1995 in Islamabad, Pakistan, and returned to New York. If convicted, he could be sentenced to life imprisonment. He is accused of being the architect of a scheme to murder about 4,000 passengers over a 48-hour period last year as they returned on Delta, Northwest and United flights to the United States from the Far East. Yousef is also charged with placing a bomb on a Philippine Airlines flight from Manila to Tokyo on Dec. 11, 1994, as a trial run. The bomb exploded under the seat of a Japanese passenger, killing him and injuring 10 other people. He will also be tried later this year for allegedly masterminding the 1993 World Trade Centre bombing, which killed six and injured more than 1,000 people. Prosecutors allege the purpose of these attacks was to punish the United States for its support of Israel. The airline bombing case against Yousef and two other defendants, Abdul Hakim Murad and Wali Khan Amin Shah, was developed after a January 1995 fire broke out in an apartment shared by Yousef and Murad in Manila. Yousef allegedly fled to Pakistan after the bombing. The Philippine National Police found in the apartment bomb-making equipment and manuals, explosives and a Toshiba laptop computer containing schedules for Delta, Northwest and United flights along with detonation times. Yousef and lawyers for the other two defendants said in closing arguments that the police had fabricated and altered evidence found at the scene. They focused on testimony by two officers who said police reports contained false information about evidence and where it had been found. Yousef alleged that he was the victim of a conspiracy by the Philippines and Pakistan aimed at winning the favour of the U.S. government. But prosecutors argued that this was a real plan and that it was "one of the most hideous crimes anyone has ever conceived." "They had the material, they had the know-how and they had the determination to carry out the plan with deadly precision," said Dietrich Snell, assistant U.S. attorney.