- A top Hispanic in the Clinton administration says the president's re-election could depend on the votes of Latinos in a handful of battleground states. Transportation Secretary Federico Pena, one of two Hispanics in President Clinton's Cabinet, said in an interview during the Democratic National Convention in Chicago this week that Hispanic voters, who traditionally support Democrats, could decide the outcome in New Mexico, Arizona, Illinois, New Jersey, New York and Florida. "In key states ... Latino voters are going to make a difference," Pena said. Even though Clinton leads Republican challenger Bob Dole in the polls, Pena said he expects a "very competitive" race featuring immigration as a top issue. The states he mentioned hold 108 of the 270 electoral votes needed to win the presidency. Hispanics are making their largest convention showing ever with 485 delegates, 9 percent of the total and equivalent to their share of the U.S. population. Party leaders have tried to rouse their enthusiasm at daily meetings this week. Democratic National Co-Chairman Don Fowler even spoke in Spanish when he opened the convention. First lady Hillary Rodham Clinton said Wednesday Hispanic turnout is "particularly important" to re-elect President Clinton and Latino members of Congress. "I hope when you leave this convention you are energised," she told an already boisterous crowd, "and you will return home committed to doing all that we know needs to be done." A recent poll by the Southwest Voter Research Institute found that 58 percent of Hispanics nationwide would vote for Clinton. Thirteen percent supported Dole. Historically, Democrats have drawn Hispanic support from Mexican Americans in Texas and the West. But the large anti-Castro Cuban population in Florida tends to vote Republican. This year, Democrats hope Repbulicans' emphasis on immigration will mobilise Latinos to defeat them. The party's platform calls for blocking all services except emergency care for illegal immigrants and denying citizenship to their children born on U.S. soil. It also restricts legal immigrants' access to welfare. "Most Latinos understand the Republican party platform is a very negative platform in respect to Latino issues," Pena said. Jason Poblete, a Republican National Committee spokesman, said Hispanics are more concerned about the economy, health care and job security than immigration. Republicans are slowly winning Hispanic votes with their conservative fiscal and social agenda, he added. Republicans could not have won control of Congress in 1994 without Hispanics, 40 percent of whom voted Republican, Poblete said. "We reach out to Hispanic Americans ... because they care about issues like a balanced budget, less taxes and genuine welfare reform," he said.