The Texas Sunset Advisory Commission Wednesday put off until late September a decision on whether the Texas Public Finance Authority should handle debt issuance for the state's Turnpike Authority. "There are still some negotiations going on on the possibility of creating a regional toll authority for North Texas," Sunset Commission Director Joey Longley said. Parties involved in those talks have requested additional time, Longley said. If a separate toll authority were to be created the Commission would likely have to modify its plan somewhat, he said. The Sunset Commission is a 10-member panel appointed by the legislature to determine whether state agencies should be disolved or retained, and if so, in what capacity. While the Commission is uninvolved in the talks concerning the proposed new toll authority, it decided to postpone a decision on what recommendation to make to the state legislature until the Commission's next meeting. The meeting is scheduled for the week of September 23, but no exact date has been set, Longley said. A report issued by the Sunset Commission's staff last May recommended that Texas PFA issue debt for the Turnpike Authority. While the move would not be a huge moneysaver, it would be more efficient, the report said. "Why should the (Turnpike) department get in the business of doing bond issuances when we have another agency that can do it," Longley said. Texas PFA is the state's largest issuer, and can more readily handle debt issuance because it has staff in place and firms on retainer. Also Wednesday, the Sunset Commission heard testimony on a staff report released in late July that recommends consolidating the debt issuing powers of five state universities and one small agency under the Texas PFA. The move would "achieve cost efficiency through economies of scale," Longley said. The six issuers currently sell debt in small amounts infrequently. If the legislature approves the consolidation, the number of independent bond issuing agencies in Texas would drop from 19 to 13. The Sunset Commission is expected to make a decision on a formal recommendation to the legislature at its meeting the week of September 23. In addition to the Low-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal Authority, the five colleges involved are: University of North Texas, Midwestern State University, Stephen F. Austin State University, Texas Southern University and Texas Woman's University. --Kathie O'Donnell, 212-859-1655