Oil prices jumped Thursday, driven by low inventories, the threat of two hurricanes and allegations of illicit trading by Iraq. Rising prices for cotton and soybeans also helped boost the Commodity Research Bureau index of 17 commodities 1.16 points to 249.66 points. Heating oil led the advance with concern about low inventories in the United States bolstering prices. "Refined products are leading the gains and crude is just following for the ride," said Smith Barney analyst John Saucer. Oil was also boosted after the U.N. Security Council sanctions committee said it may extend its investigation of alleged illicit gas oil shipments by Iraq, which could delay the start of Iraqi crude oil exports under an agreement with the United Nations. Concerns over the possibility of Caribbean refinery closures due to possible damage from two hurricanes added to the bullish mood. Hurricane Edouard continued its march across the open waters of the Atlantic while Hurricane Fran approached the Caribbean, prompting alerts in the Leeward Islands. Amerada Hess' big refinery on St. Croix in the Virgin Islands could be at risk from Fran, traders said. Heating oil for September delivery rose 1.63 cents to 63.67 cents a gallon at the New York Mercantile Exchange, September unleaded gasoline jumped 1.39 cents to 63.72 cents a gallon and October crude oil rose 44 cents to $22.15 a barrel. Cotton futures rose despite some easing of concern about the twin hurricane threat to key U.S. growing areas with forecasts indicating both may remain offshore. Dealers also said the pace of exports was slowing, with many producers prepared to wait for prices to rise. "Prices need to be a little higher to get cotton out of growers hands. There is just not a lot of cotton to ship right now," Jarral Neeper of Calcot said. December cotton closed 0.95 cent higher at 77.06 cents a pound at the New York Cotton Exchange. Soybean prices jumped after forecasts for more dry weather that could hurt crops in the Midwest. Slow-growing soybean plants need warm nights, daytime temperatures in the low 80s (Fahrenheit) and regular rainfall next month to mature on time, crop experts said. "It was dry weather. Skilling came out at midday and fortified other forecasts which were dry so that put another bullish slant on things," a trader said. Chicago television forecaster Tom Skilling is closely followed by local floor traders. November soybeans closed 6-1/4 cents higher at $7.95 a bushel at the Chicago Board of Trade. Pork belly futures on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange were among the day's losers, sinking on signs that high bacon prices this summer have cut into demand. The key February contract fell the 2-cent limit to close at 80.05 cents a pound at the Chicago Mercantile Exchange. Dealers said prices for pork bellies in the cash market tumbled as processors bid less aggressively while supplies have grown due to a pick-up in hog slaughters. Cash pork belly prices hit their lowest level since June 26.