The dollar closed mixed Thursday after an early rally against the German mark faltered amid steep losses in the stock and bond markets. The currency rebounded from overnight selling against the Japanese yen to end the session with a modest loss against the Japanese currency and a slight gain against the mark. Fresh signs of U.S. economic strength helped lift the dollar early by raising expectations of higher domestic interest rates in coming months, dealers said. Higher rates would strengthen the dollar by enhancing the relative value of assets denominated in U.S. currency. The Commerce Department revised its estimate of second-quarter real gross domestic product growth to 4.8 percent from an initial reading of 4.2 percent. Later, Commerce reported single-family home sales rose 7.9 percent in July, beating analysts' expectations. But after modest initial gains on the data, the dollar succumbed to weakness in the stock and bond markets, dealers said. "The bond market took it right on the chin and bonds were down sharply. On the back of that, we saw a little see-sawing by the dollar," said Diego Giurleo, vice president at Royal Bank of Canada in New York. The dollar edged lower late in the trading session as the benchmark 30-year U.S. Treasury bond fell 23/32 and the Dow Jones industrial average slid over 70 points. The dollar closed at 1.4772 marks, up from 1.4767 late Wednesday. It slipped to 108.40 yen from 108.45. The Bank of France was reported to have bought French francs against the mark, successfully halting the franc's recent slide. The dollar rose against the mark in sympathy, dealers said. French President Jacques Chirac also boosted the franc and the dollar with a statement to French ambassadors asserting that France would meet the January 1999 deadline for complying with the terms to enter the proposed European monetary union. "In particular, the French actions probably set the tone. It was an action to limit the mark's gains," said Mike Malpede, senior foreign exchange analyst at Refco Group Ltd. The dollar endured modest selling in Tokyo after a Japanese official played down Wednesday's tankan business confidence survey, which suggested Japan's economy had not yet emerged from recession. Shinpei Nukaya, Vice Minister of Japan's Economic Planning Agency, called the drop in the tankan index a "blip," insisting the economy was not in danger of stalling. "We had seen a pretty good selloff of the yen against the dollar the night before and this was a bit of a correction. The dollar is not quite sure what it wants to do," Giurleo said. Given the strong U.S. data, an aggressive interest rate cut in Germany a week ago and a stumbling Japanese economy, dealers called the dollar's failure to sustain recent rallies a disappointment. "It's very hard to find an article that doesn't say the dollar is fundamentally strong, but the dollar hasn't been showing us any good signs," said Mark Gargano, managing director of foreign exchange at First Union National Bank. In other trading, the dollar rose to 1.1948 Swiss francs from 1.1926. The British pound fell to $1.5577 from $1.5594. The dollar rose to Canadian $1.3667 from C$1.3662.