American Express Co. said Thursday that Walter Berman had resigned as chief financial officer of its Travel Related Services unit and treasurer of American Express Co. While the company said Berman was leaving to form his own consulting practice and lauded his accomplishments, analysts speculated that the executive might have been miffed at not being promoted to chief financial officer of American Express. In a letter to American Express employees, American Express Chairman and CEO Harvey Golub said Berman's practice will advise leaders of major companies on corporate finance, acquisitions, re-engineering and "maximizing shareholder value." The letter lauded Berman's lengthy career at American Express, which began in 1965. Berman had held a succession of increasingly senior positions at the company. One analyst, who asked not to be identified, theorised that Berman decided to step down after the vacant job of American Express' chief financial officer was given a few weeks ago to an outsider, Richard Goeltz, an executive with the National Westminster Bank Plc group. Golub said the company will begin a process to select a successor to Berman when Goeltz begins his new duties Tuesday. In a letter to employees two weeks ago announcing Goeltz's appointment, Golub said the company interviewed many excellent candidates from both inside and outside of the company. Berman was the most visible financial executive at the company after the departure in April of Michael Monaco, who was executive vice president and chief financial officer. Monaco's departure signified the exit of the last top level executive associated with former CEO James Robinson, who was ousted by the board of directors several years ago after a series of embarassing controversies, analysts and company sources said at the time. Asked for comment on the Berman's resignation, a spokeswoman for American Express would only say that Golub's letter on the subject "speaks for itself." Golub said candidates both from within and outside the company would be considered as replacements. In the interim, the Travel Related Services business unit chief financial officers will report both to Goeltz and to the heads of their respective business units. All of Berman's other direct reports will be managed by Goeltz during the transition period, Golub said. American Express' stock fell 87.5 cents to $44.375 on the New York Stock Exchange.