By Alan Elsner, U.S. Political Correspondent The resignation of President Bill Clinton's campaign strategist Dick Morris under a personal cloud hurts the president's campaign but should not change the outcome of the Nov. 5 election, analysts said on Thursday. Morris, who is credited with resurrecting Clinton's political fortunes over the past 18 months by masterminding his turn to the political centre, quit after a supermarket tabloid reported he engaged in a year-long affair with a prostitute, with whom he shared confidential campaign documents. The woman even got to listen in to a private telephone conversation between Morris and Clinton and read advance copies of speeches to the Democratic convention days before they were delivered, the report said. The timing could hardly have been worse. Clinton was poised to make probably his most important speech of the campaign on Thursday in accepting his party's nomination for re-election. "This is the worst possible day that this story could have broken. Now, the onus is on Clinton to give such a powerful speech that he succeeds in switching the focus back to the big picture," said Samuel Popkin, a political scientist at the University of California, San Diego. The scandal could turn out to be particularly damaging if it reinforces public doubts about Clinton's character and the morals of the people with whom he has surrounded himself. Names like Gennifer Flowers and Paula Corbin Jones will resurface. Flowers alleged an affair with Clinton in 1992 and Jones is suing him for sexual harassment in a case that has been put on hold until after the election. "It's particularly damaging for Clinton given his own vulnerability on the issue of personal behaviour," said political scientist John Pitney of Claremont McKenna College in California. That's the bad news for Clinton. The good news for the president is that none of the experts interviewed by Reuters believed that the scandal would derail his re-election bid, though it could slow his momentum for a few days. "As long as the president himself is not implicated, this doesn't change the issues and doesn't change the ultimate direction of the campaign," said Steven Wayne, a politics professor at Georgetown University. Bill Kristol, editor of the pro-Republican magazine "The Weekly Standard" agreed. "Clinton's going to give a speech tonight, and that's going to lead the news. It's an embarrassment but not a big deal if your consultant turns out to be a sleaze," he said. Polls show that over 40 percent of voters do not believe Clinton has the moral character they would wish for in their president. But Clinton's favourability ratings have been soaring near 60 percent recently, suggesting that most Americans have come to terms with his weaknesses and forgiven them. Analysts doubted whether Morris's disappearance would alter Clinton's campaign strategy, which was already well set. Which brings up the interesting question of how Republican candidate Bob Dole should react to the Morris story. Dole has already made character an issue. He has attacking unamed people in the Clinton administration as self-satisfied, self-indulgent abusers both of drugs and power who don't know the meaning of personal sacrifice. Dole's first response was to say he expected a liberal drift in the Clinton campaign now that Morris, the main conservative adviser, had left. The Republican candidate said that was all the comment he would make. Kristol said Dole needed to push the Morris issue agressively to make an impact. "The only way it becomes a big deal is if this becomes emblematic of the Clinton White House. The only way for that to happen is for Dole to take it on. To really give this story legs, Dole would have to say that Dick Morris is emblematic of what's wrong with Clinton's presidency," he said. But Tony Blankley, press secretary to Republican House Speaker Newt Gingrich, said there was no need. "There are times where I think understatement works better than overstatement," he said.