Business travelers who find working on the road is expansive in an unwelcome way may have plenty of company. A recent survey found that half of more than 500 business travelers polled said they ate more while on out-of-town assignments than at home, and one in four said they hit the bar In addition, 57 percent said they ate later when travelling. The survey was conducted for Hilton Hotels Corp. as part of its research into finding ways to help guests get a better night's sleep. Avoiding heavy meals, especially late in the evening, and staying away from alcoholic beverages at least three hours before bedtime are two of the keys to a proper night's sleep, according to the company and the National Sleep Foundation, which helped conduct the research. The hotel chain has been investigating what makes people sleep better away from home and plans soon to offer experimental sleep-friendly rooms with various amenities in several cities. Among the items in or around the rooms may be extra insulation for soundproofing, live plants, devices that produce neutral sound or "white noise," a store of pillows in a variety of shapes and textures and a sleep mask and earplugs. On another hotel room topic, a survey conducted by Fodor's Travel Publications Inc. found that about six out of 10 guests always check the bedsheets first when they get into a new room. Thirty-seven percent order room service, about one in four can't resist unlocking the in-room bar, whether they buy anything from it or not; and 31 percent take the complimentary toiletries when they check out. In another area of interest to frequent travelers, the trend toward charging guests a fee for early checkout, which began earlier this year, appears to be spreading in the lodging industry. Frequent Flyer Magazine reports in its September issue that Inter-Continental is testing a $50 early departure fee for convention guests at its hotel in Chicago, and Renaissance is trying out a fee of the same size at hotels in Dallas and Washington. Fifty-dollar fees are also being tested by Wyndham at the Anatole in Dallas and by Lowe's at Washington, Annapolis, Md., and Nashville, Tenn., the publication said. Variations of the fee concept are already in place at many Westin, Hyatt and Hilton properties. ----- Business travelers: Question, complaint or pet peeve? Send them to Away on Business, c/o Reuters, Room 1170, 311 S. Wacker Dr., Chicago 60606. Or via Internet E-mail Mike.Conlon(at)Reuters.com using the "at" sign on computer keyboards. We cannot promise personal replies but will try to address letters as space permits.