What happens when two hurricanes get so close to one another that their edges overlap and they begin to interact? Forecasters were facing a real-life answer to that question on Thursday, as Hurricane Edouard's march across the Atlantic toward the U.S. coast was accompanied by the progress on Thursday of Hurricane Fran, a less powerful storm threatening the eastern Caribbean. Also on the horizon was Tropical Storm Gustav, but that tempest was hundreds of miles (km) behind the others as it edged away from Africa's coast. As they monitored the complex computer models used to predict tropical systems' movements, hurricane specialists said there was a chance that Fran might move closer to Edouard as the two storms travelled westward, raising the possibility that the edges of the two systems might near one another and begin to interact sometime this weekend. For residents of areas that are vulnerable to storms, the prospect brought visions of the birth of some kind of "super-hurricane," somehow combining the power of two mighty weather systems into one. But forecasters quickly moved to counter such fears. "They do not form one big storm. That almost never happens," said Mark DeMaria, a meteorologist at the National Hurricane Centre. In fact, the interaction of two systems is usually good news to anyone worried about the approach of torrential rains and winds, like Edouard's strong enough to flatten a house. "Normally, it's (the proximity of two storms) a good thing, in the sense that one will weaken," said Jim Gross, a National Hurricane Centre research meteorologist. If Edouard and Fran do end up competing for the same patch of ocean, any of several things could occur. In one scenario, in which Fran would follow Edouard's path, the first storm would suck enough power from the warm ocean waters that they would cool down, making it more difficult for Fran to gain or maintain strength. In another, the outflow from the stronger storm would "shear" off the convection of the other, weakening it. But not, Gross said, strengthening the stronger. Another scenario is a phenomenon known as the "Fujiwara Effect," in which the two storms become caught up in one anothers' circulation and begin to circle around one another as they move across the sea. "Each circulation would drive the other in a spiral around the other. Usually one takes over the other, the other one weakens," Gross said. The Fujiwara Effect is fairly common in the western Pacific, which often sees 25 typhoons per year. But it is very rare in the Atlantic, where more than one system at a time is considered very unusual, let alone a parade of three. But the most recent incidence came only last year, during what would become a near-record season with 19 tropical storms and hurricanes. Last August, Tropical Storm Karen edged toward Hurricane Iris as they made their way across the Atlantic far from land. "Iris was a fairly large hurricane and Karen was a developing tropical storm and Karen basically dissipated when it got to close to Iris," DeMaria said. "It eventually dissipated completely." But Iris did not gain strength from Karen's loss. "By the time the remnants of Karen got close enough, there was basically nothing left," DeMaria said.