Noranda Inc said 40,000 tonnes of contained zinc metal in concentrates will be lost this year because of the reduction in output at the company's Brunswick mine in Canada. Less than half the concentrates from Brunswick are consumed by Noranda's own zinc smelter, Canadian Electrolytic Zinc, the rest sold to outside smelters, Ivan Miller, Noranda's vice president, commercial, said. Earlier on Thursday Noranda announced that Brunswick's production rate had to be cut because seismic activity impacted on the ability of the mine to operate safely at planned levels.   Last year Brunswick produced 280,000 tonnes of contained zinc in concentrates, but Miller said this year's total will now be about 240,000 tonnes. Zinc metal supply has been relatively tight in North America where demand has remained healthy. Premiums have edged upwards. "The Arctic shipments are starting to arrive at the moment, and that eases the supply side somewhat," Miller said, referring to concentrates shipped from mines such as Red Dog in Alaska. "There is concentrate available," Miller said.   Regarding possible declaration of force majeure on concentrates deliveries to customers, Miller said, "We prefer not to, but we have to see. That is an option at the end of the day." At present, Noranda's own zinc metal production at Canadian Electrolytic Zinc will not be affected because of availability of concentrates from other sources, Miller added. Canadian Electrolytic Zinc is expected to remain producing flat out at 230,000 tonnes of metal this year.   Miller said the zinc market in North America is strong but there has been no significant price movement for months. "The metal stocks are still higher than the market wants to see," he said. "But we are reasonably optimistic about the long term and we do expect zinc prices to improve." Noranda was unable to say when normal production would be resumed at Brunswick, and Miller could not rule out further reductions in output. "There is a level of uncertainty - it's fairly technical," he said. -- Huw Jones, New York Commodities 212-859-1646