Mallinckrodt Group Inc. said Thursday that the diversified company and its joint venture partner, Hercules Inc., have begun to seek a buyer for their Tastemaker food and beverage flavors business. Mallinckrodt, which sells more than 2,000 products in more than 100 countries, said it will also seek a buyer and explore other strategic options for its animal health division, Mallinckrodt Veterinary. St. Louis-based Mallinckrodt said the moves are part of its plan to focus on its core businesses in human healthcare and speciality chemicals. Tastemaker, based in Cincinnati, is a 50-50 joint venture with Hercules established in 1992 by combining the flavors operations of both companies. It is now the fifth-largest flavors manufacturer worldwide, with annual sales of about $300.0 million. Mallinckrodt Veterinary, based in Mundelein, Ill., has enhanced its business portfolio through the sale of a commodity feed ingredients business, invested in technology and research in animal biologicals and new manufacturing facilities. It has achieved profitability by cutting costs and increasing productivity during the past three years. "The first priority for Mallinckrodt Veterinary would be to find a buyer," said Mallinckrodt spokesman Peter Faur. Other possibilities include trading the division for the operations of another company that would better complement Mallinckrodt's core businesses, he said. Another option is to spin off the animal health business or find a venture partner. "We believe that now is an ideal time for Mallinckrodt to realise the value created in both of these businesses," C. Ray Holman, chairman, said in a statement. "Both are well-positioned for growth in their respective industries." Both businesses have made "great strides" in recent years but could benefit from alignment with other companies, he said. The company said it will reinvest any proceeds from the deals in growth, especially in human healthcare. It said it will also consider acquisitions and expanding product lines in speciality chemicals, as well as additional share repurchases. Mallinckrodt said it has hired investment bankers to help it realign its business portfolio. Mallinckrodt had fiscal 1996 net sales of $2.2 billion and has about 10,400 employees worldwide. Mallinckrodt's stock rose 12.5 cents to $41 on the New York Stock Exchange in late morning trading.