Catalan nationalists who hold the balance of power in Spain turned up the heat on the new government on Thursday, telling it to expect tough negotiations for the 1997 budget on which the country's EMU hopes rest. "Both the drawing up of the budget and its negotiation look difficult," Catalan regional president Jordi Pujol told a news conference in Barcelona. Health spending has emerged as the biggest bone of contention in talks on the crucial 1997 budget between the new conservative government of Prime Minister Jose Maria Aznar and the Catalan nationalists, whose support he needs to command a majority in parliament. "It looks as if this (health spending) has turned into the main point of dispute," said a spokeswoman for the Catalan government's health department. Pujol said his Convergencia i Unio (CiU) coalition had come up with several ideas over the summer for raising more money or cutting expenditure and had found no support, even from Aznar's Popular Party (PP). "(Therefore) we will not make any more proposals. We will wait for the government to make them and we shall answer in due course," he added. Aznar's government started budget talks with the Catalans on Wednesday and ran into trouble right away over its proposals to cut health spending in order to help Spain qualify for European economic and monetary union (EMU). "There's a certain discrepancy over spending criteria for health in 1997," the Catalans' economic spokesman in parliament, Francesc Homs, told a radio interviewer earlier on Thursday. "This is probably the only issue in the social domain where we don't agree, but I don't think this difference is hopeless. We will have to study it a bit more." Aznar's government needs to trim the overall public-sector deficit by at least a trillion pesetas ($8 billion) to meet next year's target for monetary union. It wants to cut overall spending by around one percent in real terms and has proposed introducing small charges for prescriptions and basic medical services as a means of curbing burgeoning health costs. The Catalans oppose any reduction in health spending. On top of this, they want an extra 200 billion pesetas of central government funding to be transferred to the seven autonomous regions, including theirs, that run their own health services. Of this, some 30 billion would go to Catalonia. "The health system in the whole of Spain in 1997 will have higher costs than the government estimates," Homs said. The economy ministry in Madrid declined to comment. Catalan spokesmen have said they agree with the government on the general lines of the budget, implying there will be a final agreement. If the Catalans' objections stop Aznar from trimming health spending, which accounts for more than five percent of gross domestic product, the axe will have to cut deeper into other areas if Spain is to remain on course for monetary union. ($=125 pesetas)