French police detained six Corsicans suspected of bomb attacks in a rare crackdown on separatist violence on the French Mediterranean island on Thursday. The round-up was the first since the start of a rash of 22 bombs in mid-August, when nationalist guerrillas called off a shaky seven-month truce. One bomb exploded overnight on Wednesday and another was defused. The Interior Ministry said police had "identified the group of commandos which is very probably responsible for the (latest two) attacks". It said six people were being held in custody by police in Ajaccio. "Handguns, ammunition, bullet-proof vests, hoods, scanners and detonator fuses identical to those used in previous attacks were found in searches in the homes of those held," the ministry said in a statement. Earlier, police sources had said seven people were detained, all of them suspected members or sympathisers of the Cuncolta Naziunalista nationalist group. Three of them were suspected of direct responsibility for bombings in recent days. Overnight on Wednesday, a two kg (four lb) bomb seriously damaged two floors of Agriculture Ministry offices located just 50 metres (yards) from a police station in the centre of the island capital Ajaccio. No one was hurt. A second device, packed with five kg (10 lbs) of explosive, was defused before it could go off, police said. Interior Minister Jean-Louis Debre, under fire for staging secret talks with one of the largest of several rival underground nationalist groups, told the daily La Corse in a statement he had given "firm orders" to police to round up those responsible for the bombings and bring them to justice. Judges on the island had accused Paris of taking a lax stance on guerrilla violence while conducting secret but widely-reported talks with separatists, which have now failed. The latest bombing, on the heels of the new orders, had brought charges that police were powerless. "No searches, no arrests, no police reinforcements visible on the island, despite the ministry's promises," the daily France-Soir lamented before news of the arrests. "It is time to end this nightly farce," said the pro-government daily Le Figaro in an editorial. Corsica has been racked by low-level separatist-inspired violence, mainly against government targets, for two decades. The bombs have hit tourism, the island's main industry. Le Monde reported on Wednesday some separatist movements were considering taking their attacks to the French mainland on the principle that "300 grammes of explosives on the continent have more impact than 300 kilos in Corsica". The newspaper said separatists may take advantage of social unrest widely expected on the mainland in coming weeks over government austerity plans to stoke a popular backlash against the government.