A Russian airliner carrying coal miners to the remote Arctic island of Spitzbergen crashed into a snow-capped mountain as it came in to land on Thursday, almost certainly killing all 143 passengers and crew on board. The Tupolev Tu-154 was carrying mostly Ukrainian miners and some of their families from Moscow to a Russian open-cast mine on the island. Spitzbergen is governed by Norway but Russia has rights of access under an international treaty from the 1920s. Norwegian Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland told national television the worst air disaster in her country's history was "a great tragedy". "We can't say it's impossible to find survivors but...the chances are very slim," Rune Baard Hansen, the island's deputy governor, told Reuters by telephone. In Moscow, Russian officials said five people may have survived when the plane hit the mountain in poor visibility as it came in to land at Longyear, the main town on Spitzbergen. But Norwegian officials said they found no survivors in the wreckage and an official of the Russian mining company which chartered the plane, Trust Arktik Ugol, said all on board died. Yevgeny Buzny told the Norwegian news agency NTB that there were seven children and 40 women on the plane. The tiny Russian mining community was "in a state of shock", he said. Norwegian officials said there were 129 passengers and a crew of 14 on the plane. The coalminers were on their way to start work in the Russian mining towns of Barentsburg and Pyramiden -- relieving colleagues who were already waiting at Longyear airport to fly home on the doomed plane. Air traffic control lost contact with the flight shortly before its scheduled landing time of 10.15 a.m. (0815 GMT). The plane plunged into the mountain and broke up some seven km (four miles) east of Longyear. There are no roads leading to the snowbound crash site and officials said operations to recover bodies and examine the wreckage were temporarily suspended at around 1400 GMT because of thick fog, snow and freezing winds. Officials said there was also a risk of avalanches and possible danger from polar bears, which roam Spitzbergen freely. Last year, two people were killed by bears on the island. There was no indication as to the possible cause of the crash, although Norwegian and Russian air safety experts were on their way to Longyear to investigate. Western aviation experts have raised questions about the safety of Russian airline operations following the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991. The first rescuers arrived shortly after 1 p.m. (1100 GMT) and reported that most of the three-engine jet's wreckage was scattered around the top of the small Opera mountain while the rest was found on the snow-covered slopes. More than 100 miners who had been waiting at Longyear to fly home on the plane were being taken care of by the local priest and mining company officials. Many of them broke down and wept. "The mood is partly shock and deep grief. Quite a few of them lost family in the crash, they are crushed," Hansen said. The priest, Jan Hoeifoedt, said he had done his best to give some comfort. "One had his wife on the plane and others had friends, people they knew," he told Norwegian television. The Russian community on Spitzbergen numbers fewer than 2,000 people, in the mining towns of Barentsburg and Pyramiden. The Norwegian mining town of Longyear, the only other settlement, has about 1,000 inhabitants. Spitzbergen lies some 500 miles (800 km) off the north coast of Norway and endures one of the most extreme climates on the planet. Russian President Boris Yeltsin sent a message of condolence to the families of those who died and asked the government to help the bereaved families. Norway's King Harald and Brundtland both sent telegrammes of condolence to Moscow. The airspace over Spitzbergen was closed to civilian traffic and the Norwegian government said flags on public buildings would fly at half-mast on Friday. The last air disaster involving a plane of the same make was in June 1994, when a China Northwest Airlines Tu-154 crashed, killing all 146 passengers and 14 crew on board. In January of the same year, a Russian Tu-154 crashed in Siberia, killing all 124 people on board.