A Russian airliner carrying coal miners to the remote Arctic island of Spitzbergen crashed into a snow-capped mountain as it came in to land on Thursday, killing all 143 passengers and crew on board. The Tupolev Tu-154 was carrying mostly Ukrainian miners and some of their families to a Russian open-cast mine on the island. Spitzbergen is governed by Norway but Russia has rights of access under an international treaty from the 1920s. Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland said the crash, the worst air disaster in Norway's history, was "a great tragedy". The plane hit the mountain in bad weather as it came in to land at Longyear, the main town on Spitzbergen. Photographs released by the Norwegian authorities showed a smashed fuselage and pieces of the airliner's tail section which had slid down the mountainside. In one photograph, a body could be seen in the foreground, partly covered by wreckage. Norwegian rescue teams said they found no survivors and an official of the Russian mining company which chartered the plane, Trust Arktik Ugol, said all on board had been killed. Yevgeny Buzny told the Norwegian news agency NTB there were seven children and 4O women on the plane. The tiny Russian mining community was "in a state of shock", he said. Norwegian officials said there were 129 passengers and a crew of 14 on board. Rescue operations were stopped at 1400 GMT, before any bodies could be recovered, because of fog, snow and freezing winds. Officials said there was also a risk of avalanches and possible danger from polar bears which roam Spitzbergen freely. There are no roads leading to the snowbound crash site and helicopter-led operations to recover bodies and examine the wreckage were expected to resume early on Friday. The coalminers were on their way to start work in the Russian mining towns of Barentsburg and Pyramiden, relieving colleagues who were already waiting at Longyear airport to fly home on the doomed plane. Air traffic control lost contact with the flight shortly before its scheduled landing time of 10.15 a.m. (0815 GMT). The plane plunged into a mountainside and broke up some seven km (four miles) east of Longyear. Officials said there was no indication yet as to the possible cause of the crash. Norwegian and Russian air safety experts were on their way to Longyear to investigate. Western aviation experts have raised questions about the safety of Russian airline operations following the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991. The first rescuers arrived shortly after 1 p.m. (1100 GMT) and reported that most of the three-engine jet's wreckage was scattered around the top of the small Opera mountain while the rest was found on the snow-covered slopes. More than 100 miners who had been waiting at Longyear to fly home on the plane were being taken care of by the local priest and mining company officials. Many of them broke down and wept. "The mood is partly shock and deep grief. Quite a few of them lost family in the crash, they are crushed," said Rune Baard Hansen, the island's deputy governor. The priest, Jan Hoeifoedt, said he had done his best to give some comfort. "One had his wife on the plane and others had friends, people they knew," he told Norwegian television. The Russian community on Spitzbergen numbers less than 2,000 people in Barentsburg and Pyramiden. The Norwegian mining town of Longyear, the only other settlement, has about 1,000 people. Spitzbergen lies some 500 miles (800 km) off the north coast of Norway and endures one of the most extreme climates on the planet. Russian President Boris Yeltsin sent a message of condolence to the families of those who died. Brundtland and Norway's King Harald both sent telegrams of condolence to Moscow. The airspace over Spitzbergen was closed to civilian traffic and the Norwegian government said flags on public buildings would fly at half-mast on Friday. The last air disaster involving a plane of the same make was in June 1994, when a China Northwest Airlines Tu-154 crashed, killing all 146 passengers and 14 crew on board. In January of the same year, a Russian Tu-154 crashed in Siberia, killing all 124 people on board.