Alice Ratcliffe Swiss watchmaker TAG Heuer SA, best known for its carefully crafted image of danger, daring and precision, said on Thursday it was considering a new challenge -- going public. Chief executive Christian Viros said the company, which has advertised its products with slogans like "don't crack under pressure", has not yet made any firm decision on an initial public offering (IPO). "Given the current circumstances, we do not yet know when or if the IPO will be done," he told Reuters. If it goes ahead, the company's shares would be listed in Switzerland and New York, a company spokesman said. European analysts said TAG Heuer has begun approaching banks to gather information on possible pricing for such an issue. They said its share offering, like its watches, would be likely to appeal to those seeking something upscale, with long-term value which would be appealing as long as it is not overpriced. Viros, interviewed in the Swiss press, has been quoted as saying the key is in promoting the right image. The company, which spends roughly 20 percent of its revenues on advertising, is identified with precision timing equipment such as that used in downhill ski racing. Robin Seydoux, analyst at Credit Suisse Equity Research, said part of the appeal of a TAG Heuer share issue was the narrowness of the Swiss watch industry. The only Swiss watchmaker listed so far is Suisse Microelectronique et d'Horologerie (SMH ), which produces Swatch watches. "A company like TAG Heuer or SMH has a very high operating margin. The company creates value, because the return on invested capital is much higher than the cost of the capital. So it is interesting for a shareholder," said Seydoux. Demand for a TAG Heuer offering would depend on the price, he said. Capitalisation could be about one billion Swiss francs ($837.4 million). The domestic industry remains in the doldrums, however. Swiss watchmakers' exports fell 4.7 percent in the first six months of 1996 to 3.579 billion francs compared with the same 1995 period. TAG Heuer is now ranked fifth in sales behind Rolex, SMH's Swatch, Cartier and Omega. It has come up swiftly in the ranks. Sales have risen 10-fold since 1985. Its 1995 consolidated turnover was 379.6 million Swiss francs, up from 340 million in 1994. Its 1995 operating income was up 17 percent at 77 million francs. It said end-June results were up 10.5 percent versus end-June 1995. TAG Heuer, which produces about 700,000 watches annually, dates back to Heuer Watch Company founded in 1860 in Marin, adjacent to Neuchatel in Western Switzerland. In 1985 the TAG Group, owned by Saudi investor Akram Ojjeh, acquired a majority holding. The Ojjeh family currently holds 44 percent of TAG Heuer. The management, headed by Viros, holds 15 percent and London-based venture capital firm CWB Capital Partners has 41 percent. ($1=1.1941 Swiss Franc)