The grim and difficult job of recovering bodies from a crashed Russian airliner gets underway on Friday as investigators try to find out what caused the accident that cost more than 140 lives. The airliner, carrying coalminers from Moscow to the remote Arctic island of Spitzbergen, crashed into a snow-capped mountain as it came in to land on Thursday. All 143 passengers and crew were killed. The Tupolev Tu-154 was taking miners and some of their families, most of them from Ukraine, to a Russian open-cast mine. Spitzbergen is governed by Norway but Russia has rights of access under an international treaty from the 1920s. Rescue teams had to abandon efforts to recover bodies and examine the wreckage less than six hours after the crash, because of thick fog and freezing winds. Norwegian officials said there was also a risk of avalanches and possible danger from polar bears which roam Spitzbergen freely. Last year, bears killed two people on the island and few people venture out unarmed beyond the main settlements. There are no roads leading to the snowbound crash site, which was guarded overnight by police housed in hastily-erected huts to shelter them from the elements. Helicopter-led recovery operations were expected to resume early on Friday if the weather allows. Prime Minister Gro Harlem Brundtland said the worst air disaster in Norway's history was "a great tragedy". The plane hit the mountain in bad weather and poor visibility as it came in to land at Longyear, the main town on Spitzbergen, just after 0800 GMT on Thursday. Photographs released by the Norwegian authorities showed a smashed fuselage and pieces of the airliner's tail section which had slid down the mountainside after the three-engine plane crashed and broke up seven km (four miles) east of Longyear. In one photograph, a body could be seen in the foreground, partly covered by wreckage. The cause of the crash remained a mystery. The first Norwegian investigators arrived in Longyear late on Thursday and Russian officials were on their way. Air traffic control lost contact with the flight shortly before it was scheduled to land at Longyear. The pilot had not reported any problems during his approach. Western aviation experts have raised questions about the safety of Russian airline operations following the breakup of the Soviet Union in 1991 -- but the pilot was experienced and the plane had been in service for only eight years. The Russian news agency Itar-Tass said Captain Yevgeny Nikolayev had flown Tu-154s for more than 20 years. Tass quoted the airline's technical department as saying that Nikolayev and his crew members "knew the plane down to the last screw". Norwegian rescue teams said they found no survivors and an official of the Russian mining company which chartered the plane, Trust Arktik Ugol, said all on board had been killed. Yevgeny Buzny told the Norwegian news agency NTB there were seven children and 4O women on the plane. The tiny Russian mining community was "in a state of shock", he said. Norwegian officials said there were 129 passengers and a crew of 14 on board. The coalminers were on their way to start work in the Russian mining towns of Barentsburg and Pyramiden -- relieving more than 100 colleagues who were already waiting at Longyear airport to fly home on the same plane. Many of the Russians waiting to leave broke down and wept at the news of the crash. The local priest and mining company officials took care of them in Longyear. The Russian community on Spitzbergen numbers fewer than 2,000 people in Barentsburg and Pyramiden. The Norwegian mining town of Longyear, the other settlement, has about 1,000 people. Spitzbergen lies some 500 miles (800 km) off the north coast of Norway and has one of the most extreme climates in the world. The last air disaster involving a plane of the same make was in June 1994, when a China Northwest Airlines Tu-154 crashed, killing all 160 on board. In January of the same year, a Russian Tu-154 crashed in Siberia, killing all 124 people on board.