French Tobacco group Seita said on Thursday it had started legal action in the United States against Salomon Bros investment bank, seeking punitive damages as well as recovery of $30 million in losses on two derivative swap transactions in 1994. "In its complaint against Salomon, Seita asserts claims of breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, misrepresentation, negligence and breach of contract," a Seita statement said. "The suit is based upon Salomon's recommendation and sale to Seita in 1994 of two high risk derivative swap transactions... that resulted in losses to Seita of approximately $30 million," it said. The losses were recorded in its 1994 accounts, it added. "Seita seeks damages against Salomon in the amount of approximately $30 million, plus interest and punitive damages." "Seita is hopeful that the court action will provide it with the means to redress its grievances against Salomon and to recoup the losses it sustained on the swap transactions." A number of companies have sought compensation from their advisors in recent years after derivatives contracts have gone wrong. The company, whose cigarettes include the renowned Gitanes and Gauloises brands, said it had already tried to take court action on the same issue in the federal district court for the Southern District of New York. "That action was dismissed upon grounds relating solely to the jurisdiction of the court, and did not address the merits of Seita's claims against Salomon," the statement said. Seita has now brought action against Salomon in the New York Supreme Court, which did not have the jurisdiction restrictions of the federal court, it said. Seita, which earned the state 5.5 billion francs ($1.09 billion) when it was privatised in 1995, said the Supreme Court action was launched on July 23. The swap transactions concerned were a German mark-Libor interest rate swap and a yen-dollar currency swap. The company made a profit of 684 million francs in 1995, up four percent on 1994. ($1=5.062 French Franc)