German grain prices for the newly harvested crop should at least remain steady in the near future, the Bonn farm ministry said on Thursday. Farm minister Jochen Borchert said tight world grain markets and high demand in the European Union had pushed German levels above those seen a year ago -- despite harvest pressure. "There are good reasons to believe the market will stay firm but it would be too early to make recommendations as to marketing choices," he said at a harvest press conference.   The ministry said ex-farm prices of wheat were 15-20 marks a tonne above last year's 224 marks level, but the future course was hard to gauge as qualities and volumes were diverse. Farmers had relatively grown more quality wheat and this should secure them price premiums. German fob wheat prices are in a 280-310 marks range once grain gatherers, traders and transport firms take their cut. Rye farmgate prices were still 15 marks above last year's 205 marks but could decline amid quality problems, the ministry said.   Rye suffered under rainfall in recent weeks and this reduced baking qualities measured in falling number tests. Winter barley prices were pegged 10-20 marks above last year's 212 marks as volume expectations had to be trimmed. Malting barley contracts had been fixed at 320 marks but free market prices were now 10-20 marks below that level. Borchert said export activity in the upcoming season may be lower than in the one just finished because domestic stocks should no longer be wound down. But a comfortable crop of 41 million tonnes, versus 39.9 million in 1995, would exceed immediate domestic demand.   Some 20 million tonnes would go into feeding, of which two thirds would be directly fed on farm. The ministry forecast a slightly higher industrial and nutritional grain usage and import demand in durum and maize. If EU Commission approval for German exports was to be sought, the unpopular tax system should no longer be applied, Borchert said in response to questions. "We were opposed to the wheat export tax (in 95/96) and we would hope that it won't be repeated so that we would be able to participate in firm world market prices," he said. The EU today subsidised wheat exports for the first time in 15 months by paying a 3.9 Euc/tonne subsidy for 20,000 tonnes of wheat under preferential ACP programmes at a weekly tender. The ministry also said Germany would widen its role as a net importer of rapeseed because its domestic crop would decline by a third to just two million tonnes this year, following winter damage. -Bonn newsroom, +49-228-26097146