The average paedophile does not look like the monster many believe he is, according to experts at an international conference on child sex abuse. Studies show a typical profile shows the sex offender is often the man next door, usually conservative, often working in a caring profession, they said. "Abusers look the same as all of us," Ray Wyre, of Britain's Lucy Faithful Foundation, a clinic to rehabilitate sex offenders, told the first World Congress on Commercial Sexual Exploitation of Children on Thursday. Sex offenders commonly end up in respectable professions where they can have access to children and often marry to gain respectability, said Ron O'Grady, international coordinator of pressure group ECPAT (End Child Prostitution in Asia Tourism). "When they realise that their views and understanding of sexuality is different than that of others, they begin to become very secretive," O'Grady told Reuters in an interview. "They are people who have had some bad experience, usually in childhood, sometimes sexual abuse but not always. They are people who, as they grow older, find they are unable to relate in a mature way to women," O'Grady said. "We still have little knowlegde of what motivates them or drives them. It seems to be fairly complex," he added. "The occupational profile that we worked out indicates that a disproportionate number of those who sexually abuse children in Asia come to Asia posing as social workers, opening orphanages and places where children can be kept," O'Grady said. Most abusing paedophiles use pornography, not the least because it is a lucrative business, O'Grady said. "The sex abuser always makes use of child pornography...It confirms their behaviour, it assists in persuading reluctant children to become victims, it's used as blackmail, and it's commercial," O'Grady said. Too often offenders were ignored in the discussion about stopping the commercial sex trade of children, when much could be learned from them about identifying and stopping abuse. "When you see the sex offender as a monster, it's quite easy to condemn that person," said British University of Leicester-based researcher Jacqueline Sanchez Taylor. "But when you see it as the man in the pub down the road or as your brother who just divorced, you have to think of a different way to tackle the problem," Taylor told Reuters. Wyre said: "When they do talk about the offender, he's the monster, or the pervert, which immediately gives the false impression as to who the real abusers are." Sex crime experts said society needed to take a closer look at helping paedophiles halt their behaviour, rather than simply focusing on the victims when abuse takes place. "At the end of the day the society that just spends its time rescuing women and children from the river and doing nothing about the man who is pushing them in is a stupid society. But that's what we do," Wyre added.