Germany's banking watchdog authority said on Thursday that there was a growing level of fraud in the banking industry which it was finding ever harder to keep under control. Wolfgang Artopoeus, president of the Federal supervisory office for credit institutions, told a news conference in Berlin that investors were suffering damages worth billions of marks as a result and called for greater powers for his office. In 1995 his authority had taken legal action in more than 1,700 cases, he said. But only 17 of these had resulted in the activities concerned being banned, as most firms had managed to argue successfully that they did not fall within the jurisdiction of the authorities. Artopoeus said that the number fraudulent operators had increased rapidly in the last few years and was likely to continue to grow. It was becoming increasingly difficult for the office to prove illegal trading in these cases. He said companies had become very sophisticated in drawing a veil over their activities and hiding them from the office. For example, investors were sometimes offered a holding as a silent shareholder in a company and promised unrealistically high returns. In the strict legal definition this was not a banking transaction, but rather an investment transaction, meaning that the office had no power to intervene. The same was the case for so-called investment clubs. A further possibility was for the German company to act in the grey market by establishing a bank with a convincing name, often in the United States. Here again the office had no jurisdiction, Artopoeus said. "We are somewhat frustrated that we cannot intervene on legal grounds when we see shady deals," he said, adding that he hoped the office would be given additional powers in a revision of German credit laws. In addition to the fraud cases, Artopoeus said the office had noticed an increasing number of cases of minor omissions or transgressions which had led to warnings or stronger disciplinary action in 82 cases in 1995. This was twice as many as in 1994, he said. Ten cases were linked to Juergen Schneider, the former property magnate who disappeared in April 1994, leaving his company to file for bankruptcy. Schneider is now in jail in Germany on charges of fraud. --Frankfurt Newsroom +49 69 756525