The French franc will probably come under more pressure in the lead-up to the government's austerity budget in mid-September but will not face a repeat of last autumn's speculative assault, analysts said on Thursday. They said worry about union unrest over the budget was overdone and predicted that labour would not muster the same opposition to the government's plans as it did late last year when railway workers paralysed France for 24 days. "I think it is logical to expect there will be some labour problems but it is unrealistic to expect it will be as bad as last year," said economist Darren Williams of UBS. At 1435 GMT on Thursday, the franc was at 3.4265 per mark, firmly above a five-month low it touched earlier in the day of 3.4296. The franc was lifted by reports of intervention by the Bank of France after the unit flirted with the 3.4305 floor of its old Exchange Rate Mechanism band. "With the budget some way off and the market generally nervous about that and the potential for social unrest, it's hard to believe it will strengthen substantially from here in next couple of weeks," said Chemical Bank analyst Steve Barrow. "But a good deal of the bad news about the French situation is being discounted in the market," he said. Many economists saw the franc trading in a range of 3.4200-3.4500 per mark, possibly weakening to 3.4700 during the lead-up to the budget, and said the softness could carry through to October. But they did not see it extending beyond that. Analysts said Friday's jobless numbers, which are expected to show a rise in France's record 12.5 percent jobless rate, were already in the market. Conservative Prime Minister Alain Juppe has said he plans to present the main outlines of the 1997 budget, social security financing plans and tax reform programme around September 10. But analysts said they did not believe the unit would suffer the same nail-biting ride it did last October when it plunged through 3.50 per mark over worries about France's ability to meet monetary union targets. So far, the unions have contented themselves with sabre-rattling in the face of the tough budget plans aimed at meeting conditions for a single European currency. Except for the teachers' unions, labour has pledged only protest marches and refrained from vowing strike action. One economist said currency flows were relatively light and the Bank of France should be able to support the unit with fairly small-scale intervention. In addition, the unit's vulnerability has lessened since many foreign investors have already sold off French assets. They said call money could start to creep up if the franc fell to around 3.4500 per mark. Any rapid move to jack up rates could backfire by prompting a run on the franc. They added the franc was a long way from the 3.50-3.55 per mark levels where the Bank intervened during previous currency crises, closing its "five-to-ten" lending window and replacing it with a 24-hour facility that made it more expensive to bet against the franc. But one analyst at a French bank who wished to remain unnamed said, "We would not anticipate any move on rates but it would depend on the speed at which the currency fell. It frightens the Bank of France to see the franc fall rapidly."