Milan's clubbish stock exchange opens its doors to international traders next week as it finally takes on board a European Union directive to liberalise cross-border share trading. Hopes are high that the sweeping away of petty restrictions may inject new life into a stock exchange bedevilled by poor trading volumes and a resulting lack of liquidity, but it may also spell doom for some small Italian brokers, known as Sims. Italy embraces the European directive on September 1, known in Italy as Eurosim, which will allow big investment banks outside Italy to become members of the Milan exchange and deal directly, thus cutting out Italy's licenced brokers. Large European and U.S. investment banks are already preparing to increase their commitment as optimists see Milan's equity market slowly developing into a modern stock market from what is seen as a small collection of closely-held companies in the hands of founding families or shareholder syndicates. This is bad news for the smaller Sims among Italy's 113 licenced brokers. Around 20 have already gone bankrupt since the start of 1993, and some predict a further 40-50 Sims will go to the wall over the next year due to competition. "The smaller Sims which exist just to give others access to the market and earn a commission will feel the pressure. Only the research-based brokers will survive profitably," said one Italian equity analyst with a British-based investment bank. But rather than sitting back in London, Frankfurt or Paris some international banks are looking to expand their Milan operations. By dealing only with international clients, they can keep settlement in their head offices back home and put only essential traders and analysts in slimline Milan offices. However, some international houses are not so optimistic, pointing out that it will take time to get liquidity up for big stock deals in the cautious Milan market. Commission charges are been pushed lower already by increased competition, they say. Many of Italy's European partners took on board the directive at the start of the year and have only initially seen a modest boost to cross-border share trading. Analysts say that Italian Sims backed by large financial groups with deep pockets are in a strong position for the future -- these include Albertini, half-owned by French bank Societe Generale (Corrects from "Albertini, half-owned by insurer Generali"), InterSim, controlled by Italy's largest bank San Paolo, and Caboto, owned by banking group Ambroveneto. Others have the backing of large international investment banks with Cimo controlled by Dutch ABN Ambro, and Gamba Azzoni owned by France's Paribas. Also helping to increase trading volumes in the future will be the privatisation of the Milan bourse, likely early next year, analysts say. An independent stock exchange will encourage more companies to list on the Milan bourse, they believe. In addition, new privatised companies with a broad base of shareholders and a good flow of financial information are likely to encourage more trading through the Milan stock exchange by international clients. "New broadly-held groups such as ENI, STET and ENEL are likely to take over from the Fiats and Generalis as the benchmarks for the market in the future," said an analyst. Oil and chemical giant ENI floated 15 percent of its shares on the market late last year and is set to float another tranche in October. Telecoms holding group STET is hoping to sell the 64-percent stake held by the state to investors early next year, while electricity generator and distributor ENEL is slated for privatisation in 1997. Some new stocks such as luxury goods group Bulgari and vehicle brake maker Brembo have recently listed on the Milan bourse with success, but others such as Gucci and spectacle maker Luxottica have found it easier to list in New York and other markets than in Milan.