Following is a summary of major Indian business and political stories in leading newspapers prepared for Reuters by Business News and Information Services Pvt Ltd, New Delhi. Telephone: 11-3324842, 11-3761233; Fax: 91-11-3351006 Internet : biznis.news@forums.sprintrpg.sprint.com 		   -------oo0oo------- 			TOP STORIES Times Of India PAKISTAN SEES POSSIBLE TALKS AFTER KASHMIR POLL Pakistani Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto believes bilateral talks with India could resume only after next month's local assembly polls in Kashmir. In an interview published in the Dubai-based daily Khaleej Times, Bhutto said any move to hold talks during the polls, ending on September 30, could send wrong signals to the Kashmiris. Bhutto attributed the cooling off of Pakistan's response to India's call for dialogue to economic preoccupations at home and India's decision to hold polls in Kashmir. Bhutto, however, advocated regional free trade and cooperation and promised not to allow economic issues to get blurred by political problems. ---- Business Standard WORLD BANK SAYS BUDGET A MISSED OPPORTUNITY The World Bank said India had failed to utilise the 1996/97 national budget to initiate fiscal adjustments and said its current economic policies sent wrong signals to foreign private investors. The bank said India's large fiscal deficits might lead to an internal debt trap as real interest rates outpaced growth rate. CENTRAL BANK MOPS UP GDR FUNDS IN OFF-MARKET DEALS The Reserve Bank of India, the central bank, had entered off-market deals to mop up excess foreign exchange inflows from recent global depository receipt issues of Indian corporates. The market intervention was to prevent the rupee from appreciating. The consequent release of rupee funds into the system was among the major factors that led to a fall in call market rates to two percent from seven percent earlier. WORLD BANK LIKELY TO PICK UP STAKE IN INFRASTRUCTURE FIRM Multilateral institutions such as the World Bank and international investment banks are slated to pick up stakes in the proposed Infrastructure Development Finance Company (IDFC). This would help the IDFC to raise funds internationally at competitive rates. The government has formed a high-powered group to take a final view on methods for the formation of the IDFC. In a proposal submitted by the Rakesh Mohan committee on infrastructure, the foreign contributions would aggregate about $200 million over five years. NATIONALISED BANKS BACK IN THE RED The nationalised banking sector was back in the red in fiscal 1995/96 (April-march). From a net profit of 2.70 billion rupees in 1994/95, the industry -- comprising 19 nationalised banks -- registered a net loss of 11.22 billion rupees. The total net loss, however, was lower than in 1992/93 and 1993/94 when it was 35.73 billion rupees and 47.05 billion rupees, respectively. ---- Economic Times MAT TAX CONCESSIONS PLANNED FO STEEL INDUSTY, OTHERS The Finance Ministry is planning to give concessions to certain industries on the proposed minimum alternate tax (MAT). Finance Minister P. Chidambaram is said to have decided to grant tax relief to the steel industry and exempt sick companies and industries in an expended list of backward areas from MAT. Sources said these concessions would be announced when the minister eplied in the paliamentary debate on the Finance Bill.   Financial Express TAKEOVERS TO BE MORE TRANSPARENT, ACCOUNTABLE The takeover code of the Securities and Exchange Board of India (SEBI) has come in for a substantial review. The Bhagwati Committee reviewing the SEBI 1994 takeover regulations, has suggested wide-ranging changes. These include a broader open offer trigger clause, maintaining an escrow account, allowing conditional bids and defining persons acting in concert. The changes are expected to ensure greater transparency and accountability in takeovers. IOC, MTNL NOT IN NEXT ROUND OF DIVESTMENT The government will not include Indian Oil Corporation (IOC) and the Mahanagar Telephone Nigam Ltd (MTNL) in the September disinvestment round. Both the companies have indicated to the department of public enterprises and the finance ministry that they are not prepared for a global depository receipt issue or even a domestic floatation by September. Finance ministry sources said the IOC had now been earmarked for the November tranche, while MTNL would have to wait till January. COMMUNICATION MINISTER FREEZES ADB LOAN Communications Minister Beni Prasad Verma is believed to have frozen processing of the $169 million loan from the Asian Development Bank (ADB). The minister has, instead, instructed the Department of Telecommunication to inform ADB that the loan would only be taken if there is global tender for the rural telecom project without any special rider. The project envisages providing 32,000 village public telephones in the villages of the eastern Uttar Pradesh. JOINT VENTURE TO REVAMP POWER PLANTS UNLIKELY Negotiations between Tata Electric Company, Thermax Ltd and US-based Tennessee Valley Authority (TVA) on a joint venture to refurbish old power plants in India have run into problems. Under the proposed venture, the three companies were to look at old power stations mainly under the state electricity boards (SEBs) and revamp them to increase efficiency using expertise of the U.S. power firm TVA. Sources said talks between the Power Finance Corporation, the funding body, and the SEBs had failed to resolve many crucial issues regarding the proposed tie-up. ---- Observer VSNL, MTNL SHARES ENDORSED AS GOOD BUY Hong Kong based CS First Boston, in its analysis of the telecommunication (telecom) sector in India, said Videsh Sanchar Nigam Ltd (VSNL) and Mahanagar Telecommunication Nigam Ltd (MTNL) had benefited from the telecom reform. CS First Boston projected their shares as a good buy for the international market. CS First Boston's endorsement of VSNL and MTNL is likely to boost the projected re-issue of VSNL's $700 million to $1 billion Global Depository Receipts (GDR) issue and a similar issue of shares by MTNL. DEPRESSED MARKET CASTS SHADOW OVER GDR PROSPECTS A current slump in the domestic capital market may adversely affect the $3-4 billion worth of forthcoming Global Depository Receipts (GDR) to be launched by Indian companies abroad. Indian Petrochemical Company Ltd's plans for a GDR issue is facing bleak prospects in view of its premium nosediving from 25 percent to 15 percent in the last three months. The same applies to Tata flagship Telco's GDR premium.