Britain threw its support behind India on Thursday in its fight against efforts by some Western countries to combat child labour with trade threats. British Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind said London would push India's interests in arguing for Europe to be an open, liberalising force in the world economy. "We believe firmly in the right of developing countries to trade their way to prosperity," Rifkind said in a speech in the Indian capital on the first day of a two-day visit. The foreign minister said that meant Britain would join India in the struggle against efforts by some rich nations to link trade and labour at the World Trade Organisation (WTO). Germany and the United States have led countries that advocate establishing trade sanctions that could be used against countries such as India where many children work instead of going to school. India, which has launched a programme it says could attract up to 20 million children out of factory labour, says Western nations, fearing low-cost imports from developing countries, intend to use the sanctions as disguised trade barriers. Rifkind said Britain "will resist at the WTO and elsewhere the arguments of those who link trade and labour issues as a mask for protectionism". The foreign minister said Britain would also support India in its efforts to be included in a summit between European and Asian countries. Earlier this year India was not invited to the summit, held in Bangkok, which included countries from the European Union and Southeast Asia. "I regret that India was not invited to the first Asia-Europe Summit," Rifkind said. "I very much hope partners will agree to invite India and Pakistan to attend the next meeting, which we shall host in London in 1998." Rifkind, who met Indian Foreign Minister I.K. Gujral and was set to see Prime Minister H.D. Deve Gowda before leaving for Colombo on Friday, said Indo-British trade had risen more than 70 percent since 1993 to more than three billion sterling ($4.8 billion). He said Britain wanted to see it top five billion sterling ($8 billion) by the year 2000. Rifkind said closer regional cooperation would bring huge economic and security gains to South Asia. But he compared the South Asian Association for Regional Cooperation (SAARC) to a skeleton with no flesh, and said trade between states of the region accounted for only three percent of total trade in South Asia. He said closer trade ties between India and Pakistan were in the interest of both countries. "They could enhance wider regional stability too," he said.