Bangladesh, after opening its telecom sector to private investment, expects investment of up to $3 billion over the next year, Telecommunications Minister Mohammad Nasim said on Thursday. "We have taken up the telecommunications sector as our priority choice for development to encourage private initiative in the country's economy," Nasim told Reuters in an interview. "There are huge investment prospects in the telecommunications sector. I think the sector could attract up to $3 billion in investment by 1997," he said. Nasim said Prime Minister Sheikh Hasina's two-month-old government had allowed the private sector to invest in digital and cellular telephones. He said Bangladesh had already allowed two local firms -- Seba Telecom Ltd and Bangladesh Rural Telecom Authority -- to set up 393 digital telephone exchanges in small towns. The exchanges will cover more than 200,000 subscribers. Nasim said the state-owned T & T Board had so far installed 138,000 digital telephones in Dhaka. It would soon install another 67,000 lines in small towns around the capital using a $165 million Japanese grant. Under another expansion programme, the board will install 300,000 digital lines by 2000, bringing the country's total installed lines to 800,000. The board is also considering a $300 million project for the installation of 150,000 fibre optic telephone lines. Nasim said his government was allowing three local firms -- Grameen Phone Consortium, Seba Telecom Ltd and IM International -- to form joint ventures with foreign companies to set up cellular telephone networks in the country. These firms plan to invest $110 million in the first 18 months of operations to provide 59,000 phone connections. "We have ended the monopoly of the cellular business by a single company in Bangladesh. This, you can say, is a testimony of our sincerity to develop a strong private sector," he said. The minister, however, said the government would not privatise the T & T Board. "We will encourage private sector telecommunications. The Board will be there but it will have to survive private competition." Nasim said the World Bank was helping the government to formulate a new telecom policy that would be placed before parliament for approval. "The new policy will encourage private investment and create jobs for thousands of people," he added. Nasim said a regulatory body would be created soon to oversee the quality of telecommunications services in the country.