India's infrastructure sector faces a crisis due to a massive shortfall in power supply and growing freight transport congestion, the World Bank said. "An unprecedented power supply deficit, and growing freight transport congestion problems threaten to undermine the supply response to the country's stabilisation and reform efforts," the World Bank said in an annual report on the Indian economy. The development bank said that in critical areas such as power, roads and ports few private investments deals have been clinched under the new national policies. The weak financial position of the state electricity boards (SEBs), which operate virtually all the country's distribution networks, was an obstacle to private sector investment in the power sector, the Bank said. "At this time, the SEBs are not financially viable clients for potential private power producers," the statement said. There is considerable scope for private participation in road design, construction and maintainance, the Bank said. Construction cannot be carried out by the state level Public Work Departments (PWDs) and small labour-intensive road contractors alone, it said. The Bank warned that India must revamp the way in which highway construction is designed, procured and managed. Otherwise it will be unable to overcome the emerging road transport crisis and utilize the funding potentially available from multilateral and bilateral agencies, it added. The report has also underlined the need for measures to tackle the shortage of key urban services that stem from chronic underinvestment in India's towns. "India needs to improve urban areas' use of the existing resource base, strengthen the resource base, make it more efficient and establish a rule-based efficient system of capital transfers to replace the present system," the report said. The government estimates India will require over $200 billion over the next five years to beef up its infrastructure. In the power sector, it envisages a demand-supply gap of 147,000 MW, requiring an investment of over $150 billion in the next 10 years. -- New Delhi newsroom +91-11-3012024