India is planning new measures to boost foreign direct investment and accelerate the pace of economic reforms, Industry Minister Murasoli Maran said on Thursday. "We believe that the nation needs and has the capacity to absorb at least $10 billion a year as foreign direct investment," Maran told businessmen at a conference on the prospects for foreign direct investment in India. Foreign direct investment (FDI) inflow was some $2 billion in 1995/96 (April-March). Maran said the federal government would soon increase the number of high priority areas in which joint ventures between Indian firms and foreign companies are automatically approved by the central bank. Currently joint ventures with 51 percent foreign equity participation in any of 35 priority sectors get automatic approval by the Reserve Bank of India, Maran said. The government plans to expand that list, he said. "I would say that the government is actively considering to include more high priority industries in this automatic route," Maran said. "The expanded list will be announced very shortly." While FDI inflow has accelerated recently, the value of projects approved was almost four times greater than actual inflows, Maran said. "We are planning to take effective measures to improve this ratio and achieve greater and quicker inflow," Maran said. "We propose to evolve a mechanism whereby the status of implementation of selected mega projects would be reviewed by the Foreign Investment Promotion Board," he said, referring to the inter-ministry committee which clears foreign investment. Maran said domestic firms would have to carry the main burden of industrialisation. "Ultimately we cannot expect FDI and MNCs (multinational companies) alone to evolve an economic miracle in India," Maran said. "For each dollar of FDI coming from abroad, it would be necessary to raise more than two dollars domestically and we must pursue policies which ensure higher savings and capital formation," Maran said. - New Delhi newsroom +91-11 301 2024