U.S. corporate bonds fell into the close on Thursday but resisted deeper losses in U.S. Treasuries as the market snoozed ahead of the Labor Day weekend, dealers said. Junk issues TransTexas Gas and Payless Cashways were lifted separately after favorable news. Treasuries came under pressure after the commerce department said it revised its estimate of second quarter gross domestic product upward to a 4.8 percent annualized rate of growth. Analysts surveyed by Reuters expected the estimate to remain unchanged at 4.2 percent.   A reported 7.9 percent jump in single-family home sales for July sparked further selling, analysts said, lending credence to a near-term Fed tightening. The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond closed down 23/32 to 96-12/32 to yield 7.04 percent. Back in the corporate arena, traders said quotes reflected a slight improvement in spread, but activity was so thin that levels were difficult to guage. "You'd be wasting your time to try and get anything done today," one trader said. "Desks are half-staffed and we're just biding time until the weekend."   Turning to high-yield trade, debt issued by building materials retailer Payless Cashways traded up on news its same store sales in August rose 2.5 percent from the same period last year, traders said. The 9.125 percent senior subordinated notes due 2003 were up four points to 66-1/2 bid, 66-7/8 offer near the close. Elsewhere, distressed credit TransTexas Gas Corp's debt improved when the firm announced it plans to sell some of its assets in a bid to reduce debt. The TransTexas 10.50 percent senior secured notes due 2000 were quoted at 104 bid, 105 offer near the close, up about two points on the day.   The company said it hired firms Jefferies & Co Inc and First Union Corp to assist in the sale of its Lobo Trend natural gas producing properties in Webb and Zapata counties of South Texas and associated undeveloped acreage. Collins & Aikman Products 11-1/2 percent notes due 2006 fell more than one point to 102-1/2 following news on Wednesday the firm bought Foamex International's JPS Automotive unit.   The high-grade and high-yield primary markets were stagnant with no deals priced on Thursday or expected to price on Friday. In fact, syndicate managers said few, if any, new issues would come to market before the U.S. employment report is released in September. The Public Securities Association has recommended a 1400 EDT/ 1800 GMT early close for the U.S. fixed-income markets on Friday in observance of the Labor Day holiday. --Al Yoon, 212-859-1672