Hilton Hotels Corp chief executive, Stephen Bollenbach said Hilton's five percent equity stake in Ladbroke Group Plc will cost Hilton about US$180 million at current stock prices. Ladbroke shares closed in London at 2.11 sterling a share. Earlier, Hilton said it and Ladbroke will form a separate company that will merge the reservations, promotion, marketing and future development of Hilton hotels in the U.S. and overseas. Hilton will make the investment when the two complete their deal, which is expected in early 1997.   "It seemed to me that to invest something on the order of $200 million proved we were going to put our money where our mouth is," Bollenbach said in a press teleconference, adding a financial investment helped bolster the relationship. The alliance had been long-anticipated on the Street, but analysts still reacted positively. "It makes all the sense in the world to put together the two names," said Dennis Forst, analyst at Hancock Institutional Equity Services. He said it is too soon to know what the deal might add to revenues, but "it definitely is accretive (to earnings)."   Indeed neither Bollenbach nor Ladbroke's chief executive, Peter George, said they could quantify the amount of money the deal stands to generate for their companies. Bollenbach gave one example in which he said the merger of the name could cause hotel owners to look more favorably on hiring Hilton to manage their hotels because of the added promotions and reservation capacity it would bring. "Securing a management contract is worth $10, $20, $30 million depending on the size of the property," Bollenbach said. "How many of those contracts we will get because we are combined, we just can't guess at. But we know its very, very significant." Moreover, Ladbroke will now be able to join Hilton's very popular Hilton Honors frequent guest program, adding Hilton's 5.0 million clients to its potential guest list. Likewise, Hilton will add Ladbroke customers to its possible guests. After initially gaining as much as 1-3/4 on the news, Hilton shares were off 1/4 at 106-3/4 near the market's close following the broad market decline.