The resignation of Bill Clinton's top political strategist Dick Morris left Wall Street uneasy on Thursday amid concern that, without him, the president may drift toward the liberal end of the political spectrum. "I think it's fair to say that this loosens the influence of centrists on Clinton. Morris was anathema to liberals," said Michael Metz, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Co. "It is possible that he will be replaced by someone with a more left-wing interventionist government policy.   "In that sense it's not good for the market." Although a bastion of Republicanism, Wall Street has grown used to Clinton and is wary of Republican candidate Bob Dole's pledge to cut taxes across the board by 15 percent if elected. Many in the financial community see Clinton as being more of a moderate Republican than a liberal Democrat and they credit Morris to a large extent for guiding the president down that path, analysts and strategists said.   "The question is, does Wall Street like Clinton as a moderate Republican? If he's re-elected and Morris is not around, that would be a negative," said David Shulman, chief equity strategist at Salomon Brothers. "A Republican Congress with a moderate Republican president in the form of Clinton hasn't been so bad. Wall Street is uncomfortable with Dole and his walk on the supply side. The bond market prefers Clinton. Stocks are more ambiguous." Morris resigned on Thursday, saying he did not want to become an issue in Clinton's re-election campaign.   In a written statement, he did not comment on published allegations he had a year-long affair with a prostitute. His resignation further depressed an already skittish stock market, which began selling off after the release of economic data this morning, which indicated strength and sent the long bond yield back above seven percent. The Dow Industrials were down 64.73 points, or 1.13 percent, at 5647.65 at their unofficial close on Thursday. The allegation was made in an article in the supermarket tabloid newspaper The Star. Morris called the allegations published in the tabloid, "sadistic...yellow journalism." He said he would not dignify the reports with a response.