TransTexas Gas Corp said Thursday it has engaged Jefferies & Co Inc and First Union Corp to assist in the sale of the company's Lobo Trend natural gas producing properties in Webb and Zapata counties of South Texas and associated undeveloped acreage. "We have received strong indications of interest in the entire Lobo from parties with much greater capital resources than our own," the company explained in a statement. "Assuming that a transaction can be concluded at a price beneficial to the company, it makes sense financially to monetize the Lobo now," the company contiued.   Stating it would use the proceeds to reduce debt and improve future earnings, TransTexas said the sale offers "the potential to de-lever the balance sheet and provide capital for more rapid growth of our new development areas such as Bob West North." The company said it is opening a data room to allow potential buyers' evaluation of the properties being offered. Included is a 1,100 mile pipeline system from the Lobo Trend to the Agua Dulce marketing hub near Corpus Christi, Texas, and the company's interest in some 200,000 gross acres in the Lodgepole prospect of North Dakota.   TransTexas said that the potential use of proceeds of a sale would include general corporate purposes and a re- purchase of its 11-1/2 percent Senior Secured Notes due 2002. On February 1, TransTexas' proved reserves in the Lobo Trend were 794 billion cubic feet of natural gas equivalent and the area had 1995 average net daily natural gas production of 280 million cubic feet per day with over 800 wells owned and operated by the company. The company said the improved cashflow and thus higher rates of return in Bob West North and other areas outweigh the benefits of further extensive capital development in the Lobo. The Bob West North field has substantially higher per-well production and reserves quantities than the Lobo, it pointed out. Although capital expenditure costs per well are higher, at some $2 million per well, lifting costs are very much lower and thus unit cashflow and net present value is higher. -- New York Newsdesk 212-859-1610.