A surprising jump in U.S. new home sales in July suggests the economy remains fairly strong into the third quarter, which may prompt the Federal Reserve to tighten monetary policy before the end of the year. "Clearly the economy is not slowing as rapidly as anticipated," said Sung Won Sohn, chief econmist at Norwest Corp. "We have an economic slowdown but not slow enough to calm fears ... regarding higher interest rates," he added. July single-family new home sales rose 7.9 percent to an annual rate of 783,000 units from a revised 726,000 in June.   "I think it's pretty clear that economic growth in the current quarter will be quite a bit higher than what (Fed) chairman Greenspan feels comfortable with," Sohn said. "As a result we are going to see higher interest rates sooner than later," he added. The July increase of 7.9 percent was the largest rise since January, when the rate increased by 8.8 percent, the Commerce Department said. "The housing market is resilient. It shows good strength in three of the four housing regions," said Carol Stone, senior economist at Nomura Securities International Inc.   "I think the bond market is already telling us the combination of data we've had this morning is pushing the (Fed) in the direction to move," Stone added. While U.S. economists see this morning's data contributing to the possibility of a Fed tightening near-term, a few broader-based reports still need to be looked at, they said. "Although today's data contributes to the (tighter policy) scenario, whether or not they'll pull the trigger will depend on other economic reports like employment and retail sales," Stone said.   Economists noted that while existing homes sales represent actual closes, new home sales represent applications filed and cautioned the numbers can later be revised significantly. Looking ahead, U.S. experts will focus on the Labor Department's release of U.S. unemployment and nonfarm payrolls data next Friday for another glimpse into the strength of the U.S. economy.