Mallinckrodt Group Inc said Thursday that it and its joint venture partner, Hercules Inc, will seek a buyer for their Tastemaker food and beverage flavors business. Mallinckrodt said it also will explore all strategic options for its animal health division, Mallinckrodt Veterinary.   Mallinckrodt said these moves are part of its plan to intensify its focus on its core businesses in human healthcare and specialty chemicals. The company said it will reinvest any proceeds from these deals in new and ongoing growth opportunities, especially in human healthcare. Growth initiatives, including possible acquisitions and expanded product lines, in specialty chemicals, as well as possible additional share repurchases, will also be considered, it added. Investment bankers have been retained to assist in global efforts to realign its business portfolio, Mallinckrodt said.   Asked what options are being weighed for the animal health division, Mallinckrodt spokesman Peter Faur said, "The first priority for Mallinckrodt Veterinary would be to find a buyer." Other options include possibly trading the animal health division for the operations of another company that would better complement Mallinckrodt's core businesses, Faur added. Other possibilities would include spinning off the animal health business or finding a venture partner, Faur added. Mallinckrodt had sales for fiscal 1996 ended June 30 of $456.0 million.   Mallinckrodt said the veterinary business, based in Mundelein, Ill., has achieved profitability through cost reduction and productivity during the past three years. It recently divested its commodity feed ingredients business and has built its animal biologicals business. Faur said that, at this point, there are no buyers lined up for Tastemaker. "We are starting the process," he added. Tastemaker, based in Cincinnati, is a 50-50 joint venture with Hercules established in 1992 by combining the flavors operations of both companies. It is now the fifth-largest flavors manufacturer worldwide, Mallinckrodt said. Tastemaker's annual sales are about $300.0 million, Faur said. "We believe that now is an ideal time for Mallinckrodt to realize the value created in both of these businesses," C. Ray Holman, chairman, said in a statement. "Both are well-positioned for growth in their respective industries." Holman said both businesses have made "great strides" in recent years but could benefit from alignment with other companies. Mallinckrodt's fiscal 1996 net sales were $2.2 billion. Reuters Chicago Newsdesk - 312-408-8787