The U.S. economy boomed ahead more robustly than previously thought during the second quarter, growing at its fastest rate in two years, the Commerce Department said Thursday. Gross domestic product expanded at a 4.8 percent annual rate in the second quarter, up from the 4.2 percent estimated a month ago. The surprisingly strong economic growth during the spring was likely to fuel doubts that a predicted second-half slowdown will occur soon enough to head off hikes in interest rates later this year.   Second-quarter GDP growth was more than double the 2.0 percent rate of the first quarter and was the strongest for any three months since the second quarter of 1994, when GDP grew at a 4.9 percent annual rate. Wall Street economists had forecast no change in the previously estimated 4.2 percent rate of second-quarter GDP growth. The department said several factors accounted for the stronger growth, including a smaller drag on the economy from huge trade imbalances.   Also, investment in producers' durable equipment grew at a 6.0 percent annual rate in the second quarter, nearly double the previously estimated 3.2 percent rate. There also was more investment in expanding plants and adding new production equipment than the government had previously estimated, and stronger spending by the government itself on goods and services. Inventories were leaner heading into the second half than originally thought. A possible restraint on the economy is that consumer spending in the second quarter was not as strong as first thought. Personal consumption spending grew at a 3.4 percent annual rate rather than the previously estimated 3.7 percent, the department said. There was little sign in either of the two inflation measures in the GDP report that prices were heating up. The implicit price deflator advanced at a 1.8 percent annual rate in the second quarter, the same as estimated a month ago and down from a 2.2 percent rate in the first quarter. The fixed-weights measure of price changes rose at a 2.2 percent rate instead of 2.1 percent but was still down from the first quarter's 2.3 percent.